Death on the Nile 


Agatha Christie 


Death on the Nile 

AGATHA CHRISTIE 

Level 5 

Retold by Nancy Taylor 
Series Editors: Andy Hopkins and Jocelyn Potter 

Contents 

page 

Introduction 

V 

Chapter 1 

Egypt! An Excellent Destination! 

1 

Chapter 2 

Who’s Who on the Nile 

11 

Chapter 3 

Tragedy Strikes 

33 

Chapter 4 

Everyone is a Suspect 

44 

Chapter 5 

The Truth is Discovered 

62 

Activities 


89 



Introduction 


‘She cares too much, that little one,’ Poirot said to himself. ‘It is not 
safe. No, it is not safe.’ 

Early in this extremely popular mystery story, Agatha Christie’s 
most famous detective, Hercule Poirot, observes an imbalance 
in the relationship between two young lovers in a London 
restaurant. He fears - and we, the readers, fear with him — that 
there is danger ahead. From the beginning of the novel, the 
author carefully builds a complicated plot that mixes murder 
and love, theft and politics. We are presented with an exciting 
adventure story that, like all great murder mysteries, keeps us 
guessing until the final pages. Look for clues as you read, but be 
prepared for more than a few surprises! 

Born in the town of Torquay in the south of England on 
15 September 1890, Dame* Agatha Christie was the leading 
British writer of mystery novels during her lifetime, and has 
remained extraordinarily popular since her death in 1976. Her 
books have been translated into many languages, and her play 
The Mousetrap has run continuously in London for more than 
fifty years. How did she become such an amazing and long- 
lasting success? 

As a child, Agatha Christie was given the freedom to discover 
the world and her talent. She was educated at home, taught 
herself to read, and could choose her own books and form her 
own ideas. At the age of sixteen she went to her first formal 
school, in Paris, to complete her education. 

Later in life Dame Agatha said that she had not planned to be 

* Dame: a title given to a woman as a special honour for her work 


111 



a writer, but by the time she was eleven years old she had already 
had a poem printed in the local newspaper, and before she was 
twenty several more of her poems had been published in The 
Poetry Review and she had written a number of short stories. 

In 1914 the First World War began and Agatha married 
Archibald Christie. She worked in a hospital during the war, 
and from this experience she gained knowledge of poisons. This 
proved useful when she started writing detective stories: forty- 
one of her novels and twenty-four short stories contain murder 
by poison! At about the same time as the Christies’ only child, 
Rosalind, was born in 1919, Agatha’s sister encouraged her to 
begin a serious writing career. She recognised Agatha’s ability 
and dared her to write a mystery novel. 

The young writer decided that she needed a detective and, as 
in the war-time hospital, she noticed details in the world around 
her. At the time her home town was full of former First World 
War officers and soldiers from Belgium, and Agatha decided 
that one of them would make the perfect model for Hercule 
Poirot. He starred in her First detective novel, The Mysterious 
Affair at Styles (1920). 

Over the years Agatha Christie wrote about several different 
detectives, but Poirot had no equal in the hearts of her readers 
until she created Miss Marple, based partly on her own 
grandmother. She did not plan to put Miss Marple into a series 
of books, but the public loved her and she eventually appeared 
in twelve Christie novels and twenty short stories. 

Agatha Christie wrote no fewer than sixty-six detective 
novels and several plays in addition to the record-breaking The 
Mousetrap , as well as six novels using the name Mary Westmacott. 
Her extraordinary success was the result of a simple method: 
Christie wrote about the world she knew, noticing every detail 
about real, ordinary people and places. An idea lor a new 
novel could come into her head when she was taking a walk 


IV 



or shopping for a new hat; she filled dozens of notebooks with 
ideas, plots and characters. She was, as her grandson Mathew 
Prichard has described her \.. a person who listened more than 
she talked, who saw more than she was seen.’ 

Agatha Christie’s other great interest was the Middle East, 
which she learned to love when she began travelling with her 
second husband, Max Mallowan, in the 1930s. She loved the 
desert, where she and Max studied the lives of ancient peoples. 
She helped with these serious explorations and also used the 
places in some of her favourite books, especially in Death on 
the Nile, Murder in Mesopotamia and They Came to Baghdad. She 
wrote enthusiastically about her travels in this part of the world 
in the book that ended her long writing career: the story of her 
own life, which came out the year after her death. 

Towards the end of their careers, both Agatha Christie and 
Max Mallowan were honoured by the British government for 
their work. Agatha became a Dame in 1971. This honour came 
from a nation that was grateful for her entertaining stories, and 
also for the fact that she helped to define the English character 
and way of life for the rest of the world. 

Death on the Nile brings together many of the best features of an 
Agatha Christie novel: murder, a colourful foreign background, 
a group of interesting suspects, and a surprising solution by 
the amazing Monsieur Hercule Poirot. It is not surprising 
that Dame Agatha’s detective novels continue to charm and 
entertain millions of readers around the world. The popularity 
of her stories goes beyond the printed page. There have been 
many television and film productions of her mysteries, and there 
is even a very popular computer game based on Death on the 
Nile. Doubtless Agatha Christie’s stories will continue to excite 
readers and audiences for many, many years. 


v 




Hercule Poirot , the famous Belgian detective. 








Chapter 1 Egypt! An Excellent Destination! 


‘Look! That’s hcrl Linnet Ridgeway! She’s got millions,’ said Mr 
Burnaby, the owner of the local pub. 

He and his only customer stared as a beautiful young woman 
jumped out of a large Rolls Royce and hurried into the post 
office. Such charming girls were seldom seen in the sleepy town 
of Malton-under-Wode. 

‘She’ll bring money into the town,’ remarked the man at the 
bar. ‘A bit different from Sir George.’ 

‘That’s true. He had no luck, especially with the horses.’ 

‘What did she pay for his house?’ 

‘About sixty thousand, and she’s going to spend that much on 
changes to the place.’ 

‘No! Where did she get all that money from?’ 

‘From an American grandfather, Leopold Hartz,’ Mr Burnaby 
informed him. ‘He left millions to his daughter, who married 
Melhuish Ridgeway. Like a Hollywood film, isn’t it?’ 

They watched the girl leave the post office and drive off. 

‘Money ami good looks,’ complained the man at the bar. ‘It 
doesn’t seem fair ... ’ 


♦ 

‘Darling, I think this place is going to be quite wonderfulV 

The Hon.* Joanna Southwood was sitting in Linnet Ridgeway’s 
bedroom at Wode Hall. 

‘It’s perfect, isn’t it? agreed Linnet. 

Her face was enthusiastic and alive. Joanna’s long, clever 
face and strange eye make-up couldn’t compete with Linnet’s 

* Hon.: the Honourable, a title that the children of some English lords and 
ladies are allowed to use 


1 



natural beauty. 

Joanna picked up a beautiful string of pearls. ‘I suppose these 
are real, aren’t they, Linnet?’ 

‘Of course.’ 

‘Most people can’t afford real pearls, my dear. These are 
amazing. What are they worth?’ 

‘About fifty thousand.’ 

‘Aren’t you afraid of having them stolen?’ 

‘No, I always wear them, and anyway they’re insured.’ 

‘Let me wear them until dinner time, will you, darling? It 
would be so exciting!’ 

Linnet laughed ‘Of course, if you’d like to.’ 

Joanna put on the pearls and said, ‘I really envy you, Linnet. 
You’ve got everything: money, beauty, perfect health. You’ve 
even got brains ! When’s your twenty-first birthday?’ 

‘Next June. I’ll have a big, brilliant party in London.’ 

‘And then are you going to marry Charles Windlesham? 
The newspapers are so excited about the possibility. His big old 
house could use your attention. Just think! You could rule both 
Wode Hall and Charltonbury. And he is in love with you.’ 

‘I don’t really want to marry anyone yet,’ Linnet replied. 

A telephone call from Jacqueline de Bellefort, Linnet’s oldest 
friend, interrupted their pleasant conversation. 

‘Jackie!’ Linnet shouted. ‘I haven’t heard from you for agesV 

‘Darling, I apologize, but now I want to see you urgently,’ 
her friend said. ‘Can I come down?’ 

‘Yes, please! I’d love to show you Wode Hall.’ 

‘Right. If my old car isn’t in a bad mood, I’ll see you in time 
for afternoon tea. Goodbye, darling!' 

‘Jackie and I were at school together in Paris,’ Linnet told 
Joanna. ‘Her father ran off and left the family without a penny.’ 

‘Darling,’ Joanna said, ‘if my friends lose their money, I stop 
seeing them immediately ! They always want to borrow from me.’ 


2 



‘So if / lost all my money tomorrow?’ asked Linnet. 

‘Darling, you’d never see me again. Nobody wants poor, 
unsuccessful friends.’ 

‘Joanna, you’re terrible! And you’re wrong about Jacqueline. 
She’s very proud and has never asked me for money.’ 

‘Let’s wait and see. I suspect she wants something,’ Joanna 
warned her. 

‘She did sound excited,’ admitted Linnet. ‘She always does.’ 
At that moment, one of Linnet’s servants entered the room. 
She apologized quietly and left with a dress from Linnet’s 
cupboard. 

‘Has Marie been crying?’ asked Joanna. 

‘Poor Marie! She was planning to marry a man who has a job 
in Egypt. She didn’t know much about him, so I made some 
enquiries. He has a wife already - and three children.’ 

‘You must make a lot of enemies, Linnet. You’re so wonderfully 
efficient and so good at doing the right thing.’ 

Linnet laughed. ‘I haven’t got an enemy in the world!’ 

♦ 

At four o’clock Jacqueline de Bellefort found her friend, Linnet, 
and Lord Windlesham in the grand sitting-room at Wode Hall. 
The gentleman watched the girls greet each other affectionately. 
A pretty child, he thought — not beautiful, but definitely 
attractive, with her dark curly hair and her enormous eyes. He 
politely greeted the girl and then left the two friends alone. 

Jacqueline asked excitedly, ‘Lord Windlesham? The man the 
newspapers always say you’re going to marry? Are you?’ 

‘I’m not ready to decide. Now, let’s talk about you. Where 
have you been? Why haven’t you written?’ 

‘I’ve been at work. You see, I have to have a job.’ 

‘But darling, why didn’t you ...? ’ Linnet began. 

‘Ask you for help? Well, that’s what I’m here for. Not to 


3 



borrow money, but I have a great big important request.’ 

‘Go on,’ encouraged Linnet. ‘Tell me about it.’ 

‘If you’re going to marry Windlesham, perhaps you’ll 
understand. I’m engaged to a man called Simon Doyle. He’s 
simple and boyish and charming and completely loveable! He’s 
got no money - but he’s from a good family. He’s been in a 
terribly boring office job, and now he’s lost that. Linnet, I shall 
die if I can’t marry him! 

‘Don’t be silly, Jackie!’ 

‘No, I’m not exaggerating. We can’t live without each other. 
Listen, I want you to give the job of land agent at Wode Hall to 
Simon. It’s perfect for him. And if he’s no good, you can sack 
him. My special Linnet, my dear friend, say you’ll hire him!’ 

Linnet laughed. ‘Jackie, you really arc mad! Bring this young 
man to Wode Hall and we’ll talk about it.’ 

‘Darling Linnet! I’ll bring him tomorrow. You’ll love him!’ 

♦ 

In London that evening, as Jacqueline de Bellefort and her 
young man, Simon Doyle, celebrated at Chez Ma Tante, the 
owner of that restaurant welcomed an important guest. To most 
observers, this small, strange-looking man with a big moustache 
looked nothing like an important customer, but Monsieur* 
Blondin quickly found a very good table for his special friend. 

‘Monsieur Poirot!’ Monsieur Blondin greeted the new arrival. 
‘It is wonderful to see you.’ 

Hercule Poirot, the famous Belgian detective, smiled, 
remembering a case in which a dead body, a waiter, Monsieur 
Blondin and a very attractive lady had all played a part. 

Monsieur Blondin lowered his voice. ‘Are you working on 


* Monsieur: French for Mr or sir, Madame is the word for Mrs or madam, and 
Mademoiselle (plural: Mesdemoiselles) is the word for Miss. 


4 



something serious now?’ 

Poirot shook his head. ‘I have, unfortunately, retired. It is 
true, however, that man invented work to avoid having to 
think, but there is travel. This winter I shall visit Egypt - the 
climate, they say, is good.’ 

‘Egypt! An excellent destination!’ 

Monsieur Poirot watched the dancers, and smiled when he 
noticed one particular couple: a tall, handsome man with broad 
shoulders and a thin, dark-haired girl. Their happiness - in the 
place, the time and in each other - was obvious. 

The music stopped and the couple returned to a table near 
Monsieur Poirot. The girl was bright-eyed, laughing, but there 
was something else in her eyes. 

‘She cares too much, that little one,’ Poirot said to himself. 
‘It is not safe. No, it is not safe.’ And then a word caught his 
attention: ‘Egypt.’ He listened more carefully. 

‘Don’t worry, Simon,’ the girl said. ‘Linnet won’t disappoint 
us.’ 

‘The job sounds perfect. And I will work hard - for yoid’ 

‘We’ll wait for three months,’ the girl said happily. 

‘Then, everything that is mine will be yours,’ the young man 
said. ‘And Egypt for our honeymoon! Never mind the cost. I’ve 
always wanted to go there. The Nile and the Pyramids ... We’ll 
see it together, Jackie. Won’t it be wonderful?’ 

‘Yes,’ the girl replied, and her voice was suddenly sharp, almost 
with fear. ‘But will it be as wonderful for you as for me?’ 

‘Don’t be silly, Jackie. Let’s dance.’ 

‘L///C qui aimc et un qui se laissc aimer'* Monsieur Poirot thought. 
‘Yes, I wonder too.’ 

♦ 


* une qui dime et un qui se laisse aimer. French for ‘a woman who loves, and a 
man who allows himself to be loved’ 


5 



‘What will you do if he’s awful?’ asked Joanna. 

Linnet shook her head. ‘Oh, I can trust Jacqueline’s taste.’ 

‘Ah, but love changes people,’Joanna said quietly. 

Linnet looked impatient and changed the subject. ‘I must 
talk to the architect about those plans. I’m having some horrible 
little houses near my new swimming pool pulled down.’ 

‘Are the people who live in them happy to go?’ 

‘Most of them are delighted. One or two of them are 
being rather stupid about it. They’ll have much better living 
conditions.’ 

‘The queen has spoken,’ smiled Joanna. 

‘I’m not like that!’ objected Linnet. 

‘No, but others are powerless. The combined effect of money 
and charm. If you can’t buy it with cash, you buy it with a smile. 
Result: Linnet Ridgeway, The Girl Who Has Everything.’ 

Their conversation stopped as Lord Windlesham joined them. 
Joanna greeted him and then left the sitting-room. She had seen 
the purposeful look in Windlesham’s eye. 

‘Have you made a decision, Linnet?’ he asked, coming straight 
to the point. ‘I think, you know, we’d be very happy together.’ 

‘I’m not sure, Charles,’ Linnet apologized. ‘I’m enjoying 
myself. I do think Wode Hall is looking nice, don’t you?’ 

‘It’s beautiful. And you like Charltonbury, don’t you? Of 
course it needs modernizing - but you’re so clever at that sort of 
thing.’ He paused. ‘But I’ll wait for your answer.’ 

Later, Linnet examined her feelings. Charltonbury was 
beautiful, old and quite famous, but it wasn’t hers. There, she 
would be Lord Windlesham’s wife, not the queen. 

And wasn’t there another reason for her hesitation? She 
rememberedjackie’s voice, saying, ‘I shall die if I can’t marry him!’ 
She knew that she didn’t feel that way about Charles Windlesham. 
Perhaps she could never feel like that about anyone. 

The sound of a car came through the open window. Linnet 


6 



shook herself impatiently and went to greet Jackie and her 
young man. 

‘Linnet!’Jackie ran to her. ‘This is Simon!’ 

Linnet saw a tall, wide-shouldered young man with very dark 
blue eyes, curly brown hair and a simple, boyish smile ... She 
stretched out her hand. The hand that took hers was firm and 
warm. She liked the open admiration in his eyes, and a warm, 
sweet feeling swept over her. 

‘Come in!’ she said, as she finally dropped Simon’s hand. ‘Let 
me welcome my new land agent properly.’ 

And as she turned to lead the way, she thought, ‘I’m very, very 
happy. I like Jackie’s young man ... I like him enormously ...’ 

And then, sadly: ‘LuckyJackie ... ’ 

♦ 

On the Spanish island of Majorca, Tim Allerton leant back in 
his chair and yawned. He looked at the attractive, white-haired 
woman of fifty who sat beside him. 

‘Do you really like Majorca, Mother?’ he asked. 

‘Well,’ his mother said after some consideration, ‘it’s cheap.’ 

‘And cold.’ 

Tim was a tall, thin young man with dark hair and sad eyes. 
He described himself as a writer, but his friends understood that 
he did not encourage questions about his work. 

‘What are you thinking of, Tim?’ 

‘I was thinking of Egypt. Real warmth, darling. Golden 
sands. The Nile. You mustn’t worry about the cost. I heard 
this morning that I’ve made a very satisfactory amount from an 
investment.’ 

‘This morning?’ said Mrs Allerton. ‘But your only letter this 
morning was from Joanna ...’ She stopped and bit her lip. 

The friendship between her son and his cousin always 
annoyed her. They both liked discussing others, and had many 


7 



of the same friends. Mrs Allerton didn’t like to admit that she 
felt slightly jealous of the girl. ‘But it’s more than that,’ she 
thought. ‘I don’t like her. She’s insincere, and can’t be serious 
about anything.’ 

‘Quite right. Mother,’ he said coolly. ‘It was yesterday that I 
heard about the investment. Here’s Joanna’s letter - it’s full of 
news. Windlesham’s gone to Canada, upset by Linnet Ridgeway’s 
refusal. She’s definitely going to marry her land agent. He has 
no money, of course, though he’s from a good family, and he 
was actually engaged to one of Linnet’s best friends.’ 

‘Young people today don’t know how to behave,’ said Mrs 
Allerton. ‘And is Joanna enjoying life?’ 

‘She says she’s thinking of opening a little shop in Mayfair.’ 

‘She always talks about having no money, but she travels and 
her clothes must cost her a lot.’ 

‘Ah,’ said Tim, ‘but she probably doesn’t pay for them.’ 

‘Well, unpaid bills lead to ruin in the end. Think about poor 
Sir George Wode. He’s suffered terribly since he lost Wode Hall. 
He thinks Linnet Ridgeway has spoilt the place, and robbed his 
family of their history.’ 

‘But Mother, he shouldn’t live in the past and neither should 
we! We’ll go to Egypt next month. No arguments!’ 

Mrs Allerton smiled affectionately, and then said guiltily, 
‘I’m afraid I promised Mrs Leech that you’d go with her to the 
police station. She wants to report the robbery of her ring, but 
she doesn’t understand any Spanish.’ 

‘I’ll go, but the silly old woman was wearing the ring when 
she went swimming that day. I’m sure she lost it in the sea.’ 

♦ 

In a New York apartment, old Miss Van Schuyler addressed her 
poor relations. 

‘I’m going to Europe and then to Egypt,’ the old woman 


8 



explained. ‘Miss Bowers will come with me as usual, but I want 
Cornelia to come as my social assistant.’ 

‘How wonderful!’ cried Cornelia Robson, a large girl with 
big doglike eyes. ‘I’ve always dreamed of a trip to Europe.’ 

‘My dear cousin,’ her mother added, rising to leave, ‘I’m really 
very grateful to you. I think Cornelia suffers from not being a 
social success here in New York. I haven’t been able to take her 
to the right places since Ned died.’ 

As the Robsons were leaving, they met a tall, efficient- 
looking woman on the stairs. 

‘Well, Miss Bowers, so you’re going to Egypt? What a lovely 
trip!’ Mrs Robson hesitated, and waited until her daughter had 
gone on ahead of her. ‘I do hope there won’t be any ... trouble,’ 
she whispered with concern. 

‘Oh, no, Mrs Robson. I always watch very carefully.’ 

♦ 

In another part of New York City, Mr Andrew Pennington was 
opening his personal mail. Suddenly, his face changed and he 
called for his partner. 

‘What is it, Pennington?’ Sterndale Rockford looked not 
unlike his partner — tall and thin with greying hair and a 
clever face. 

‘Linnet’s married.’ Pennington checked the date. ‘Today. 
To someone called Simon Doyle. I’ve never heard of him, 
have you?’ 

‘No. What shall we do?’ Rockford asked. ‘Got a plan?’ 

‘The Normandie sails for Europe today,’ Pennington said 
slowly. He looked at the letter again. ‘Linnet’s going to Egypt 
for her honeymoon. A chance meeting there? We have to stay 
one step ahead of her British lawyers.’ 

‘Linnet’s clever,’ said Rockford. ‘You go. She’s always liked 
you - her “Uncle Andrew”. And the situation is very serious.’ 


9 



♦ 

In the London offices of Carmichael, Grant and Carmichael, 
William Carmichael called his nephew into his office. 

‘Have a quick look at this letter,’ he said to young Jim 
Fanthorp. ‘It’s just arrived by airmail from Egypt.’ 

...It seems wrong to be writing business letters on a day like this. We 
have been to so many interesting places already and the day after tomorrow 
we are going up the Nile by steamboat. When we went to buy our tickets, 
who do you think we saw? My American trustee, Andrew Pennington. I 
think you met him when he was in London two years ago. I had no idea 
he was in Egypt and he had no idea that I was! Nor that I was married! 
My letter, telling him, must have just missed him. He is actually going up 
the Nile on the same trip that we are. Isn’t that amazing? ... 

‘You must go to Egypt.’ Carmichael interrupted his nephew’s 
reading. ‘There’s no time to lose.’ 

‘But why me?’ 

‘Use your brains, boy. Linnet Ridgeway has never met you; 
nor has Pennington. If you go by air, you may get there in time.’ 

♦ 

Mrs Otterbourne addressed her daughter in her usual theatrical 
manner as she tied a brightly coloured scarf around her head. 

‘I’m tired of Jerusalem,’ she complained. ‘And I’m not treated 
with the proper respect in this hotel. My presence here attracts 
other visitors! Rosalie, are you listening to me?’ 

Rosalie was silent - she was looking at a photograph in the 
newspaper, below which was printed: 

Mrs Simon Doyle, previously the well-known society beauty 

Miss Linnet Ridgeway, and her husband. Mr and Mrs Doyle are 

on their honeymoon in Egypt. 


10 



‘That nasty little manager,’ Mrs Otterbourne continued, ‘says 
he needs our room, but I’m prepared to fight for my rights.’ 

‘I suppose we could go on to Egypt,’ said Rosalie, without 
much interest. ‘It doesn’t make any difference.’ 

‘It’s certainly not a matter of life or death,' agreed her mother. 

But Mrs Otterbourne was quite wrong — because a matter of 
life or death was exactly what it was. 


Chapter 2 Who’s Who on the Nile 

‘That’s Hercule Poirot, the detective,’ said Mrs Allerton. 

She and her son were sitting in the sun outside the Cataract 
Hotel in Assuan. Tim sat up more quickly than he usually did. 

‘That funny little man in the white suit? What’s lie doing 
here?’ 

His mother laughed. ‘Darling, you sound quite excited. 
But I don’t think he’s looking for criminals. He’s probably on 
holiday.’ 

‘Well, he’s found the best-looking girl in the place,’ Tim 
noted. ‘It’s a pity that she looks so bad-tempered.’ 

The subject of these remarks was Rosalie Otterbourne. She 
certainly seemed to be in a bad mood, but Hercule Poirot was 
chatting to her cheerfully. 

‘I am finding this place very interesting,’ he was saying. ‘The 
black rocks, and the sun, and the little boats on the river.’ 

‘I think Assuan’s rather dull,’ Rosalie said. ‘The hotel’s half 
empty and everyone’s about a hundred years old.’ She stopped as 
she saw the smile in Poirot’s eyes. ‘I - I wasn’t thinking of you. 
I’m sorry. That sounded rude.’ 

‘Please, do not apologize,’ said Poirot. ‘It is natural that you 
should wish for people of your own age. But there is one young 
man, at least.’ 


11 



‘The one who sits with his mother all the time? I like her, but 
I think he looks awful - so arrogant.’ 

‘And I — am / arrogant?’ 

‘Oh, I don't think so, and anyway, I suppose you have a reason 
to be arrogant. Unfortunately, crime doesn’t interest me at all.' 

Poirot said seriously, ‘I am delighted to learn that you have no 
guilty secret to hide.’ Rosalie looked questioningly at Poirot, but 
the detective did not seem to notice, and continued, ‘We will 
both make the trip to Wadi* Haifa and the Second Cataract?* 
And Madame, your mother, was not at lunch today. I hope that 
she is able to join us.’ 

‘Egypt doesn’t suit her,' Rosalie said quickly, ‘but we will be 
on the trip.’ 

They continued their walk to the river’s edge. One of the 
Nile steamboats was just arriving, and Poirot and Rosalie looked 
at the passengers with interest. Tim Allerton joined them. 

‘Look!’ he shouted excitedly. ‘That’s Linnet Ridgeway. 
There with the tall man. He must be the new husband.’ 

‘Doyle,’ said Rosalie. ‘Simon Doyle. It was in the newspapers. 
She’s got an enormous amount of money, hasn’t she?’ 

‘Yes,’ Tim agreed. ‘She’s probably the richest girl in 
England.’ 

Linnet Ridgeway, now Linnet Doyle, stepped off the boat 
with the confidence of a famous actress who expects people to 
admire her. Then she made a light remark to her husband, and 
when he answered, the sound of his voice seemed to interest 
Hercule Poirot. His eyes lit up. 

The couple passed close to him and he heard Simon Doyle 
say, ‘We can stay a week or two if you like, darling.’ He was 
looking at her with a deeply loving, almost respectful attitude. 


* wadi: a dry valley or riverbed 
f cataract: a large or high waterfall 



Poirot’s eyes considered him thoughtfully. 

Tim watched the couple too. ‘Lucky devil! Most girls with 
millions have something wrong with them. She’s perfect!’ 

‘They look truly happy,’ commented Rosalie. ‘It isn’t fair,’ 
she added quietly. 

She and Poirot continued their walk. ‘So, it is not fair, 
Mademoiselle?’ asked the detective gently. 

Rosalie’s face turned red. ‘It seems a little too much for one 
person,’ she said. ‘Money, good looks, a beautiful figure and —’ 

‘And love? But perhaps he married her for her money.’ 

‘Didn’t you see the way he looked at her?’ 

‘I also saw dark circles below her eyes. I saw a hand that held 
her bag so tightly that it was white. Something is not right. And 
I know something else,’ the detective continued. ‘I have heard 
the voice of Monsieur Doyle before.’ 

But Rosalie was not listening. ‘I’d like to tear her beautiful 
clothes off her back and destroy her lovely, arrogant face. I’m 
just jealous — I’ve never hated anyone so much at first sight.’ 

‘Wonderful! You will feel better after saying all that.’ 

Rosalie looked at him doubtfully. Then they both laughed, 
and made their way slowly back to the hotel. 

Poirot found a seat in the garden, and was looking around 
him when he recognized the girl from Chez Ma Tante. The 
expression on her face now was very different. She was paler, 
thinner, and there were lines that told of great unhappiness. A 
face — and a voice. The new husband, Mr Simon Doyle, had 
been at Chez Ma Tante with this young woman. 

Suddenly, Linnet Doyle and her husband came down the 
path. Linnet’s voice was happy and confident. The girl from 
Chez Ma Tante stepped into the path. 

The other two stopped. 

‘Hello, Linnet,’ said Jacqueline de Bellefort. ‘Our paths keep 
crossing. Hello, Simon, how are you?’ 


13 



Linnet had moved back with a little cry. Anger completely 
changed Simon Doyle’s good-looking face. He looked ready to 
hit the girl, but then he noticed Poirot. 

‘Hello, Jacqueline,’ he said coldly. ‘What a surprise.’ 

‘A surprise?’ she asked. Then she walked away. 

Poirot left in the opposite direction. He heard Linnet Doyle 
say, ‘Simon! What can we do? Oh, what can we do?’ 

♦ 

After dinner that night, most of the guests at the Cataract 
Hotel were sitting at little tables on the terrace. Simon and 
Linnet Doyle and a tall, serious-looking, grey-haired American 
hesitated in the doorway. Tim Allerton rose from his chair and 
greeted them. 

‘You don’t remember me, I’m sure,’ he said pleasantly to 
Linnet, ‘but I’m Joanna Southwood’s cousin.’ 

‘Of course I remember you! You’re Tim Allerton. This is my 
husband.’ Her voice shook slightly — pride, shyness? ‘And this is 
my American trustee, Mr Andrew Pennington.’ 

The three new arrivals joined Tim and his mother at a table. 
The next time the doors opened, Linnet looked up nervously, 
but relaxed as a small man came out and walked across the 
terrace. 

‘You’re not the only celebrity here, my dear. That funny little 
man is Hercule Poirot,’ explained Mrs Allerton. 

‘Of course,’ said Linnet thoughtfully. ‘I’ve heard of him ... ’ 

‘Monsieur Poirot!’ called Mrs Otterbourne, in her loud, 
bossy voice, from the other side of the terrace. ‘Sit down with 
us.’ He obeyed. ‘There are quite a lot of celebrities here now, 
aren’t there? Society beauties, well-known detectives, famous 
novelists.’ 

Poirot felt rather than saw Rosalie’s unhappiness. ‘You are 
working on a novel at present, Madame?’ he asked politely. 


14 



‘I’m being terribly lazy,’ Mrs Otterbourne said. ‘My readers 
are getting very impatient. I’ll soon start writing again. I speak 
the truth. Sex — ah! Monsieur Poirot, why is everyone so afraid 
of sex? You have read my books?’ 

‘Ah, Madame, I do not read many novels. My work ...’ 

Mrs Otterbourne interrupted. ‘You must have a copy of Under 
the Fig Tree. You will find it interesting. It’s honest — and real' 

‘I’ll fetch the book for you,’ offered Rosalie quickly. 

‘No, dear, I can go,’ said Mrs Otterbourne angrily. 

‘Please, Mother, talk to Monsieur Poirot. I know where it is.’ 

‘A glass of wine, Madame?’ offered Poirot, when Rosalie 
had left. 

‘No, no, I rarely touch alcohol.’ 

‘Then may I order a lemonade for you, Madame?’ 

Rosalie returned, a book in her hand. Poirot was surprised 
by the lack of clothes worn by the lady on the cover, but he 
accepted it politely while noticing the girl’s embarrassment. 

Suddenly, the doors opened again and the thin, dark-haired 
girl from Chez Ma Tante walked quietly to an empty table 
and chose her seat carefully. Then she stared directly at Linnet 
Doyle. Linnet whispered something to Mr Pennington and 
changed her seat. 

Poirot noticed everything and wondered about the situation. 

Five minutes later, the other girl moved to the opposite side 
of the terrace. Her eyes never left the face of Simon Doyle’s 
wife. 

Soon Linnet Doyle and her husband left the terrace. Jacqueline 
de Bellefort smiled and lit a cigarette. 

♦ 


‘Monsieur Poirot?’ 

Poirot stood up quickly. He had remained out on the terrace 
after everyone else had left. He looked into the eyes of Linnet 


15 



Doyle, who looked more lovely than ever. 

‘At your service, Madame,’ he said politely. 

‘Monsieur Poirot, I am in urgent need of someone to help 
me. And I think that you are probably the right person.’ 

‘Thank you, Madame, but I am on holiday, and when I am 
on holiday I do not take cases.’ 

‘Perhaps 1 can change that,’ Linnet said confidently. ‘Before I 
met my husband, he was engaged to a close friend of mine, Miss 
de Bellefort. My husband ended the engagement - they were 
not suited to each other. Miss de Bellefort, I am sorry to say, was 
very unhappy about it. She threatened us, but didn’t harm us. 
Instead, she has begun to follow us wherever we go.’ 

‘Ah — rather an unusual — er — revenge,’ commented Poirot. 

‘Unusual — and annoying. We’re on our honeymoon and 
she has been there at every stop: Venice, Brindisi, Mena House 
and now here. It’s nonsensical. I am surprised she hasn’t got 
more pride.’ 

‘There are times, Madame, when other emotions are 
stronger.’ 

‘Yes, possibly, but what can she hope to gain by all this?’ 

‘It is not always a matter of gain, Madame.’ 

Linnet looked slightly embarrassed but said quickly, ‘You are 
right, but this behaviour has got to be stopped.’ 

‘If this young lady has not threatened or insulted you in 
public and if she has not physically harmed you, I do not see 
what you can do. The air is free to all!’ 

‘This is impossible! There must be some way of stopping her.’ 

‘You could move somewhere else,’ said Poirot calmly. 

‘Why should we — run away? Are we ... ?’ She stopped. 

‘Exactly, Madame. Are you ... what? Why does Mademoiselle 
de Bellefort’s presence offend you so much? I will tell you a 
little story. A month or two ago, I was dining in a restaurant in 
London. At the table next to me were a man and a girl. They 


16 



were, it seemed, very much in love and confident of the future. 
I could see the woman’s face, and the strength of her love was 
clear. They were engaged, I learnt, and were discussing their 
honeymoon. They planned to go to Egypt.’ He paused. ‘And 
now they are here, in Egypt. But the man is on his honeymoon 
with another woman.’ 

‘Yes, I had already told you the facts,’ said Linnet coldly. 

Poirot continued, ‘The facts — yes. But that night in London, 
the girl also mentioned a friend who she could depend on. I 
think that friend was you, Madame. She trusted you.’ 

‘These things happen, Monsieur Poirot,’ Linnet said angrily. 
‘I know that Jackie was deeply in love with Simon, but he didn’t 
feel the same way. He was very fond of her, but even before he 
met me, he was beginning to feel that he had made a mistake 
- and an engagement can be broken.’ 

‘Your argument is logical,’ said Poirot, ‘but it does not explain 
one thing - your attitude. Your very close friend has been deeply 
hurt, but instead of feeling pity or annoyance at her behaviour, 
you are extremely angry. There can be only one reason for your 
reaction — that you feel a sense of guilt.’ 

Linnet jumped to her feet. ‘How dare you talk to me like 
that! Really, Monsieur Poirot!’ 

‘But I do dare, Madame. I suggest that you felt strongly 
attracted to Simon Doyle at once. Then there was a moment 
when you had a choice. You hesitated, but you chose to use your 
charm to take Simon from your friend, although you knew 
what he meant to her.’ 

There was a silence. Then Linnet said in a cold voice, ‘This 
has nothing to do with my problem now.’ 

‘I disagree with you, Madame. I am explaining why your 
friend’s unexpected appearances upset you so much. You know, 
in your heart, that she has right on her side. I am guessing that 
you have had a happy life, that you have been kind and generous 


17 



in your attitude to others.’ 

‘I have tried to be,’ said Linnet quietly. 

‘And that is why you are so upset that you have intentionally 
caused someone pain. I am sorry if I have been rude, but 
psychology is the most important fact in a case.’ 

Linnet said slowly, ‘Perhaps you’re right - but what can be 
done about it now? I can’t change the past.’ 

‘You must accept that you are responsible for your friend’s 
problems. You must have courage and do nothing.’ 

‘Couldn’t you - talk to Jackie? Try to reason with her?’ 

‘What is your husband’s attitude to this situation?’ 

‘He’s angry,’ said Linnet. ‘Extremely angry.’ 

Poirot considered this. ‘Well, I will talk to this young woman 
as a private individual, but I do not believe that I shall achieve 
anything. Tell me, how did she threaten you?’ 

‘She threatened to kill us both.’ 

♦ 

Hercule Poirot found Jacqueline de Bellefort sitting on the rocks 
below the terrace. 

‘Mademoiselle,’ he began, ‘may I talk to you? I have just come 
from Madame Doyle - but I am not working for her.’ 

‘Oh! Then why have you come?’ 

‘1 saw you and Monsieur Doyle once at Chez Ma Tante,’ Poirot 
explained. ‘Since then, many things have happened. You cannot 
change the past. Turn to the future and stop this suffering.’ 

‘I am sure that would suit dear Linnet,’Jacqueline said angrily. 
‘But there are times when I almost enjoy all of this.’ 

‘And that, Mademoiselle, is the worst of all,’ Poirot said gently. 
‘Go home. You have your whole life in front of you.’ 

‘Monsieur Poirot, I love Simon — and he loves me ... And I 
loved Linnet ... and trusted her. She was my best friend. But she 
has always been able to buy everything she wanted.’ 


18 



‘Did Monsieur Doyle allow himself to be bought?’ 

‘No, it’s more complicated than that. She gave up Lord 
Windlesham and his title and his big house and chose Simon. 
He felt confused, but also special. Linnet’s beauty and charm 
blinded him, and he couldn’t see me any more. He fell in love 
with her because she made him.’ She looked away. ‘Yes, he hates 
me now. But he’d better be careful.’ She pulled a small pearl- 
handled pistol from her handbag. ‘A nice little thing. One bullet 
would kill a man or a woman, and I know how to use it. I was 
going to shoot them, but then I decided to follow them and steal 
their happiness.’ She laughed loudly. 

Poirot took her arm. ‘Stop this!’ he said. ‘Do not open your 
heart to evil. It will make its home there and destroy you.’ 

Jacqueline hesitated, but then said, ‘You couldn’t stop me if I 
decided to kill her. What have I got to live for?’ 

‘But, Mademoiselle, murder is an unforgivable offence.’ 

‘Then you should respect my present method of revenge. As 
long as it works, I won’t use that gun. But sometimes I want to 
hurt her — to put my little pistol against her head and shoot her - 
O/d’ She stared into the shadows. ‘Someone was standing there.’ 

Poirot looked round quickly. The place seemed completely 
empty. ‘I think we are alone, Mademoiselle.’ 

‘You do understand — that I can’t do what you ask.’ 

Poirot shook his head. ‘But you can! There is always a moment. 
You could be different from your friend Linnet, and make the 
right choice. If that moment passes, there is no second chance.’ 

‘No second chance ...’ Jacqueline looked thoughtful, then 
raised her head. ‘Good night, Monsieur Poirot.’ 

♦ 

The next morning, Simon Doyle joined Hercule Poirot as the 
detective was walking into the town. 

‘Good morning, Monsieur Poirot. May I walk with you?’ 


19 



‘Certainly, Monsieur Doyle. I shall be delighted.’ 

Simon hesitated and then said suddenly, ‘This problem that 
Linnet told you about — it’s a crime that she should be treated 
this way! People can say that I behaved badly, but I won’t allow 
them to blame her.’ 

‘Did you — have you talked to Jackie — Miss de Bellefort?’ 

‘Yes, but she wouldn’t listen. Can’t she see that she’s making 
a fool of herself?’ demanded Simon. 

‘She has only a sense of — injury, shall we say?’ Poirot replied. 

‘Yes, and I would understand if she never wished to see me 
again. I admit I was completely to blame. But respectable girls 
don’t follow people round. What can she hope to gain from it?’ 

‘Perhaps — revenge!’ 

‘Crazy! I’d understand better if she tried to shoot me,’ said 
Simon. ‘She’s hot-blooded - and she’s got an uncontrollable 
temper. She could do anything for revenge if she were really 
angry. But this spying ...’ 

‘It is cleverer - yes! It is intelligent! And there is nothing, 
then, of the old feeling left?’ asked Poirot carefully. 

‘Monsieur Poirot, how can I explain it? After I met Linnet, 
Jackie didn’t exist. She thinks that I married Linnet for her 
money, but I wouldn’t marry any woman for money! I know 
this sounds arrogant, but Jackie was too fond of me!’ 

l Une qui aime et un qui se laisse aimer,' remarked Poirot. 

Simon ignored this comment. ‘Jackie wanted to own me, body 
and soul, and a man doesn’t want that kind of possessive attitude. 
Then I met Linnet.’ His voice was full of boyish wonder. ‘It was 
amazing. Everyone treats her like a queen - and she chose me. 
I’m nobody! Why can’t Jackie accept it like a man?’ 

Poirot’s upper lip curled in a faint smile. ‘Well, Monsieur 
Doyle, she is not a man.’ 

‘No, but she should understand the situation. If you no longer 
care for a girl, it’s madness to marry her. And now that I can see 


20 



what Jackie’s really like, I feel I’ve had rather a lucky escape.’ 

‘Have you any idea what else she would do?’ Poirot asked 
thoughtfully. ‘She carries a pistol in her handbag.’ 

Simon looked surprised. ‘I don’t believe she’ll use it — she 
threatened earlier, but the situation has gone past that. This 
spying on us and following us everywhere has really hurt Linnet. 
L3ut I've made a plan. I’ve announced openly that we’re going 
to stay here for ten days. But tomorrow the steamboat Karnak 
starts from Shellal to Wadi Haifa. I’ll book our tickets for that 
trip under false names. Tomorrow morning Linnet and I will 
leave the hotel, saying that we’re going to Philae for the day, but 
instead we’ll go to Shellal and join the Karnak there. Linnet’s 
maid will bring our luggage. Jackie will expect us back at the 
hotel in the evening, but when we don’t return, it will be too 
late for her to find us.’ 

‘And if Miss de Bellefort waits here until you return?’ 

‘We may not return. We could go to Khartoum and then 
perhaps by air to Kenya. She can’t follow us all round the 
world.’ 

‘Your plan may work,’ said Poirot, ‘but you are, of 
course, running away from the problem. And remember, 
Mademoiselle de Bellefort has brains.’ Then he added, ‘I, too, 
shall be on the Karnak. I bought my ticket in London. I like to 
plan every detail.’ 

Simon laughed. ‘Is that how a skilful murderer behaves? You 
must tell us about some of your cases when we’re on the Karnak. 

I know that Mrs Allerton would like to hear about your work.’ 

‘Mrs Allerton? That is the charming white-haired woman 
who has such a loving son?’ 

‘Yes. She’ll be on the Karnak too, but she doesn’t know about 
my plan. I believe that it’s better not to trust anybody.’ 

‘Very wise. A principle I also follow. And the third member 
of your party, the tall grey-haired man ...’ 


21 



‘That’s Pennington, Linnet’s American trustee. We met him 
by chance in Cairo.’ 

Ah, vraiment!* A question, with your permission? Madame 
— your wife — is over twenty-one years old?’ 

‘No, not yet, but she didn’t need anyone’s permission to marry 
me. It was a great surprise to Pennington. He left New York 
on the Carrnanic two days before her letter about our wedding 
reached his office.’ 

‘The Carrnanic ... ’ Poirot said thoughtfully. ‘What a 
coincidence to meet Mr Pennington in Cairo.’ 

‘Yes, and his plans included this Nile trip, so we’ve been 
travelling together. On our honeymoon! But at least, in his 
presence, we have to talk about other things, and not Jackie.’ 

‘Your wife has not told Mr Pennington about this problem?’ 

‘No, it’s our problem, and anyway, when we started on this 
Nile trip we thought we’d seen the end of it.’ 

‘No,’ said Poirot. ‘I am sure you have not yet seen the end 
of it.’ 

‘You’re not very encouraging, are you, Monsieur Poirot?’ 

Simon Doyle’s attitude worried Poirot. ‘This man is like a 
child,’ he thought. ‘He takes nothing seriously except playing 
games! But his wife and Jacqueline de Bellefort take this business 
seriously.’ 

The detective said, ‘You will allow me to ask a personal question? 
Was it your idea to come to Egypt for your honeymoon?’ 

Simon seemed upset again. ‘No, but Linnet absolutely insisted 
on it. And so — and so —’. he stopped. 

‘Naturally,’ said Poirot. He understood that if Linnet Doyle 
decided on anything, it had to happen. He thought to himself, 
‘I have heard from Jacqueline de Bellefort, Linnet Doyle and her 
husband. Whose story of this affair is nearest the truth?’ 

* Ah, vraiment!: French for‘Oh, really!’ 


22 



♦ 

At eleven the next morning, Jacqueline de Bellefort sat on the 
terrace and watched Simon and Linnet Doyle depart in a small 
sailboat. At the same time, and without Jacqueline seeing it, a 
car departed with the Doyles’ luggage and Linnet’s maid. 

Hercule Poirot decided to spend the time before lunch on the 
island of Elephantine, opposite the hotel, and joined two men 
stepping into one of the hotel boats. The younger man was a 
tall, dark-haired young man with a thin, angry face. His clothes 
were extremely dirty and unsuitable for the climate. The other 
traveller, a heavy middle-aged man with a foreign accent, began 
a conversation with Poirot as the boat headed for Elephantine. 
The younger man turned his back on them, and instead admired 
the skill of the Egyptian boatman who was piloting the boat. 

On the little island, the friendly stranger introduced himself 
to Monsieur Poirot as Signor* Guido Richetti, a historian. Poirot 
accepted his card politely and formally presented Signor Richetti 
with one of his own cards. Then the two men, now speaking 
in French, stepped into the Elephantine Museum together. The 
younger man from the boat walked around with little interest. 

Afterwards, Poirot noticed Mrs Allerton sitting alone beside 
the river, and joined her. He removed his hat politely. 

‘Good morning, Mr Poirot,’ Mrs Allerton said. ‘Are you 
joining us on the trip to the Second Cataract?’ 

‘Yes, I am.’ 

‘I’m so glad. I’m very excited to meet you. But I saw you 
talking to Simon Doyle earlier. What do you think of him? His 
marriage to Linnet Ridgeway was a great surprise.’ 

‘You know Madame Doyle well, Madame?’ 

‘No, but a cousin of mine, Joanna Southwood, is one of her 


* Signor: Italian for Air or sir 


23 



best friends - and one of Tim’s.’ She looked displeased. 

‘You do not like your cousin, Madame?’ 

‘Not much,’ said Mrs Allerton, and then changed the subject. 
‘How very few young people there are out here! That pretty girl 
with the awful mother is almost the only young creature in the 
place. She interests me, that child, but I feel sorry for her. You 
can suffer so much when you’re young and sensitive.’ 

‘Yes,’ agreed Poirot. ‘She is not happy, poor little one.’ 

‘I’ve tried to talk to her, but she’s not interested. However, 
I hope to have another opportunity on this Nile trip. I’m very 
friendly, really — people interest me enormously .’ She paused, 
then said: ‘Tim tells me that the dark-haired girl, Miss de 
Bellefort, is the girl who was engaged to Simon Doyle. It’s rather 
uncomfortable for them - meeting like this. You know, it may 
sound foolish, but she almost frightens me.’ 

‘A great force of emotion is always frightening,’ Poirot said. 

‘Do people interest you too, Monsieur Poirot? Or are you 
only interested in possible criminals?’ 

‘That description would not leave many people outside it.’ 

‘Even me, perhaps?’ asked Mrs Allerton with surprise. 

‘Mothers, Madame, are particularly dangerous when their 
children are in trouble.’ 

She said seriously, ‘Yes, I think you’re quite right.’ Then she 
smiled again and said, ‘I’m trying to imagine motives for crime 
suitable for everyone in the hotel. Simon Doyle, for example?’ 

Poirot said, smiling, ‘A very simple crime — nothing 
complicated. He would go directly towards his goal.’ 

‘And therefore he would be easy to catch?’ 

‘Yes, he would not be clever.’ 

‘And Linnet?’ 

‘She would act like a queen and simply give her orders.’ 

‘And the dangerous girl — Jacqueline de Bellefort - could she 
commit a murder?’ 


24 



Poirot paused and then said doubtfully, ‘Yes, I think she 
could. I’m not sure. She puzzles me, that little one.’ 

‘Mr Pennington couldn’t commit a murder. There’s no red 
blood in him,’ said Mrs Allerton, enjoying the game. ‘And poor 
Mrs Otterbourne in her funny clothes?’ 

‘There is always pride.’ 

‘As a motive for murder?’ asked Mrs Allerton doubtfully. 

‘Motives for murder are not always grand, Madame.’ 

‘What are the most usual motives, Monsieur Poirot?’ 

‘Most frequent — money. Then there is revenge — and love, 
and fear, and pure hate, and even generosity.’ 

‘Monsieur Poirot!’ 

‘Oh, yes, Madame. Political murders are often in this group. 
Somebody is considered harmful to a society and is removed. 
The murderers forget that life and death are the affair of God.’ 

Soon they joined the others in the boat to return to the hotel. 
Poirot spoke politely to the young man in the dirty clothes. 

‘There are very wonderful things to see in Egypt, are 
there not?’ 

‘They make me sick,’ the young man replied in a surprisingly 
educated voice. ‘Think of the poor workers who struggled to 
build all these important buildings, and died doing it.’ 

You’d prefer to have no Pyramids, no Parthenon, no castles 
or cathedrals?’ asked Mrs Allerton. 

‘Human beings matter more than stones. And the future is 
more important than the past.’ 

Signor Richetti, whose special interest was ancient ruins, 
argued with the young man about art and politics until the 
boat landed. 


♦ 

After lunch, the passengers for the Second Cataract - including 
Monsieur Poirot, the Allertons, the young man and the Italian, 


25 



but not Jacqueline de Bellefort — caught the train from Cairo to 
Shellal. The Otterbournes would join the group there. 

Poirot found that he was sitting with an older lady who had 
a very lined face, a stiff white collar, diamonds around her neck 
and an arrogant expression on her face. After a quick look at 
Poirot, she retired behind her American magazine. Now and 
then she raised her eyes and shouted an order at the shy young 
woman sitting opposite her: 

‘Cornelia, collect the coats.’ ‘When we arrive, look for my 
case. Under no circumstances let anyone else handle it.’ 

The train journey was very short and soon the passengers were 
on the Karnak with the Otterbournes. Most of the passengers 
had cabins on the same deck. At the front of this deck there was 
a public lounge with windows on all sides, where the passengers 
could sit and watch the river. 

After checking his cabin, Poirot joined Rosalie Otterbourne 
on the deck. 

‘So now we journey into Nubia.* You are pleased, 
Mademoiselle?’ 

The girl took a deep breath. ‘Yes. I feel that we’re really getting 
away from things at last. Away from people. There’s something 
about this country that makes me feel — evil. It reminds me that 
everything’s so unfair. Look at some people’s mothers — and 
look at mine. The only God is Sex ...’ She stopped. ‘I shouldn’t 
say such things, I suppose.’ 

‘Why not say them — to me? Say them and then let them go.’ 

She smiled at Poirot. ‘What an extraordinary man you are!’ 
Then her faced changed again. ‘Well, here are Mr and Mrs 
Doyle. I had no idea they were coming on this trip!’ 

Simon and Linnet Doyle looked relaxed and brilliantly happy, 
and held hands as the Karnak began its seven-day journey to the 


* Nubia: a desert region and ancient nation in the Nile River valley 


26 



Second Cataract and back. 

From behind them came a light laugh. Linnet turned her 
head in shock. Jacqueline de Bellefort was standing there. She 
seemed amused. 

‘Hello, Linnet! 1 didn’t expect to Find you here. I thought you 
said you were staying in Assuan for another ten days.’ 

Linnet and Simon moved to the other side of the boat. Simon 
looked wild with anger; their pleasure had gone. Without turning 
his head, Poirot heard bits of their conversation: ‘ ... turn back ... 
impossible ... Lin, we’ve got to go on with it now ... ’ 

♦ 

In the early evening, Poirot stood alone in the public lounge. 
Suddenly, Linnet Doyle stood by his side. She looked nervous 
and worried, like a confused child. 

‘Monsieur Poirot, I’m afraid - I’m afraid of everything. The 
dark water, the wild rocks. I’ve never felt like this. Except for 
Simon, I’m surrounded by enemies.’ 

‘But what is all this, Madame?’ 

‘Perhaps it’s nerves... I just feel unsafe. Trapped! What’s going 
to happen? How did she know we were coming on this boat?’ 

‘She has brains, you know,’ answered Poirot. ‘With your 
money, why did you not hire a private boat?’ 

‘We didn’t expect this trouble. And Simon is sensitive about 
money. He wanted a honeymoon that he could pay for. I’ve got 
to educate him gradually about the finer things in life.’ Then her 
mood changed. ‘I must change my clothes. I’m sorry, Monsieur 
Poirot. I’m afraid I’ve been talking a lot of foolish nonsense.’ 

♦ 

In the dining-room, Mrs Allerton said to her son, ‘I asked little 
Hercule Poirot to sit at our table.’ 

‘Mother, you didn’t!’ Tim sounded annoyed. ‘He’ll be with 


27 



us day and night.’ 

Mrs Allerton looked upset. Tim was usually so good- 
tempered. Men were difficult to understand! ‘I’m sorry, my 
dear. I thought it would amuse you. You love detective stories.’ 

As they sat down, Hercule Poirot crossed the room to their 
table. ‘You really allow me, Madame, to join you?’ 

‘Please sit down, Monsieur Poirot,’ Mrs Allerton said, smiling. 
She noticed his quick look at Tim, who still seemed angry, so 
talked cheerfully to produce a more pleasant atmosphere. ‘Here’s 
the passenger list. Let’s try and match names to people. We 
know Miss de Bellefort and the Otterbournes. And, of course, 
Mr and Mrs Doyle. I think Dr Bessner must be the fat German 
with the moustache. And Mr Fanthorp must be the very quiet 
young man. Quite a nice face, cautious and intelligent.’ 

‘Yes,’ agreed Poirot. ‘I wonder what he is doing here.’ 

‘I think Mr Ferguson must be the young man who hates the 
rich. And Mr Pennington is the American who Mrs Doyle calls 
Uncle Andrew. I can imagine him in an office on Wall Street 
- extremely rich, I think. Next — Monsieur Hercule Poirot, 
whose talents are being wasted on this trip. Can’t you find a 
crime for Monsieur Poirot, Tim?’ 

But her well-intended conversation only seemed to annoy her 
son more, and she quickly continued, ‘We know Mr Richetti 
from Elephantine Island. Then Miss Van Schuyler - the very 
ugly old American lady who thinks she is better than everybody. 
Who are the two women with her?’ 

Finally, Tim decided to join his mother’s game. ‘Miss Bowers, 
the thin one with glasses, is her secretary and nurse. The other 
one is Miss Robson, a poor relation who seems to be enjoying 
herself although Miss Van Schuyler treats her like a slave. I heard 
them talking in the lounge before dinner.’ 

♦ 


28 



On his way to his cabin later that night, Hercule Poirot saw 
Jacqueline de Bellefort standing alone on the deck. The look 
of pain on her face stopped him. She looked sad now, not 
frightening in any way. 

‘Good night, Mademoiselle.’ 

‘Good night, Monsieur Poirot.’ She hesitated, then said, ‘You 
were surprised to find me here, on this trip?’ 

‘More sorry than surprised. You have chosen, Mademoiselle, 
the dangerous path. I doubt now if you could turn back if you 
chose to.’ 

‘That is true, but one must follow one’s star, wherever it 
leads.’ 

‘Be careful, Mademoiselle, that it is not a false star.’ 

Back in his cabin, Poirot was falling asleep when he heard 
Simon Doyle’s voice, repeating the same words he had used when 
the steamboat left Shellal: ‘We’ve got to go on with it now ... ’ 

‘Yes,’ thought Hercule Poirot. ‘We have to go on with it 
now.’ He was not happy. 

♦ 

After a stop at Ez-Zebua the next day, the Kamak continued its 
journey towards Wadi Haifa. The scenery was less frightening 
and the mood of the passengers was more cheerful. 

Linnet seemed almost light-hearted as she sat in the public 
lounge with her husband and Mr Pennington. 

‘I know it’s your honeymoon, Linnet,’ said Pennington, ‘but 
there are just one or two things ... ’ 

‘Of course. Uncle Andrew.’ Linnet at once became 
businesslike. ‘My marriage has made a difference, of course.’ 

‘Yes. I will need your signature on several documents.’ 
Pennington looked round quickly. The only other people in the 
lounge were Mr Ferguson, drinking beer at a small table, Hercule 
Poirot, who was sitting near him, and Miss Van Schuyler, who 



was sitting in a corner reading a book on Egypt. 

Pennington left and returned with a large pile of papers. 

‘Have I got to sign all these?’ Linnet asked. 

‘I know it’s not a good time, but I’d like to get your affairs in 
proper order.’ He sorted through the papers and Simon yawned. 

The door to the lounge opened and Mr Fanthorp came in. 
He looked round and then walked over to the windows and 
stood near Poirot, looking out at the pale blue water. 

Pennington put a document in front of Linnet, who examined 
it carefully. 

‘You sign just there,’ he said as he pointed to the space for her 
signature. ‘It’s not very important. You needn’t read it.’ 

Simon yawned again. ‘My dear girl, if you read everything, 
we’ll be here until lunch-time and longer.’ 

‘I always read everything carefully,’ said Linnet. ‘Father taught 
me to do that. There could be a careless mistake.’ 

Pennington gave a rather cold laugh. 

‘I’ve never read a legal document in my life,’ said Simon, 
laughing. ‘I sign where they tell me to sign.’ 

Suddenly, to everyone’s surprise, the silent Mr Fanthorp 
spoke to Linnet. ‘Excuse me, but I must say that I respect your 
businesslike attitude. It’s admirable to read a document before 
you sign it.’ Then, rather red in the face, he turned again to 
study the banks of the Nile. 

‘Er — thank you,’ Linnet said, trying not to laugh. 

Andrew Pennington looked seriously annoyed and gathered 
up the documents. ‘Perhaps some other time would be better,’ 
he said coldly. ‘We mustn’t miss enjoying the scenery.’ 

As they left, Cornelia Robson hurried in. Miss Bowers 
followed her calmly. 

‘Where have you been?’ Miss Van Schuyler said crossly. 
‘Cornelia, I expect a little attention from you. Miss Bowers, 
give me my medicine and find me a chair outside on the deck. 


30 



Cornelia, bring my sewing.’ 

After the three women left, Mr Ferguson remarked to the 
almost empty room, ‘I’d like to kill that woman.’ 

Poirot, who had noted everything that had happened in the 
room, asked with interest, ‘She is a type you dislike?’ 

‘Definitely. She’s never worked. She just uses people. There 
are a lot of people on this boat that the world would be better 
without.’ 

‘Really?’ 

‘Yes. That girl in here just now, signing documents. She’s one 
of the richest women in England - and has never done a day’s 
work.’ 

‘Who told you that she was so rich?’ asked Poirot. 

‘A man who works with his hands and is proud of it.’ 

‘Me, I work with my brain and am proud of it,’ said Poirot. 

‘They ought to be shot, all of them!’ 

‘What a fondness you have for violence!’ 

‘You’ve got to destroy before you can build up.’ 

‘It is certainly much easier, noisier and more exciting.’ 

‘What do you do for a living?’ the young man asked. ‘Nothing 
at all, I expect. You probably call yourself a middleman.’ 

‘1 am not a middleman. I am a top man,’ Hercule Poirot said 
rather arrogantly.- 

‘ What are you?’ 

‘I am a detective,’ said Hercule Poirot proudly. 

‘No! Are you here to protect that rich girl? Does she think 
she needs a stupid detective with her?’ 

‘I have no connection with the Doyles,’ said Poirot coldly. ‘I 
am on holiday. And you? Are you not on holiday too?’ 

‘I’m studying conditions,’ Ferguson said mysteriously. 

‘Very interesting,’ Poirot said to himself. 

He left the public lounge and walked along the right-hand 
deck. As he reached the back of the steamboat, he almost walked 


31 



into a woman with an excitable dark face. She was neatly dressed 
in a maid’s uniform and was talking to a big, well-built man 
— perhaps one of the Karnak's engineers. A look of alarm and 
guilt appeared on both their faces when they saw Poirot. 

Then, as he continued his walk back along the left-hand side 
of the boat, a door opened and Mrs Otterbourne nearly fell into 
his arms. 

‘Dear Mr Poirot — so very sorry,’ she apologized. ‘The boat 
moves so much. Never really happy on the water ...’ 

Poirot gently took her arm. ‘I will send your daughter to you, 
Madame. Return to your cabin. The water is too rough. You 
might be swept off the deck.’ 

Mrs Otterbourne hesitated and then went back into her cabin. 

Poirot found Rosalie sitting between Mrs Allerton and 
Tim. She was chatting and laughing quite happily, but her face 
changed when Monsieur Poirot said, ‘Your mother wants you, 
Mademoiselle.’ 

As Rosalie hurried to her mother’s cabin, Mrs Allerton said, 
‘I think she’s a very complicated girl - very unhappy.’ 

‘Well, I suppose we’ve all got our private troubles,’ Tim replied. 

♦ 

That evening, Poirot noticed Mrs Allerton talking to Miss Van 
Schuyler. As he passed their chairs, Mrs Allerton closed one 
eye and opened it again. She was saying, ‘Of course at Calfries 
Castle — the dear Prince ... ’ 

Cornelia was listening happily to Dr Bessner as the German 
told her everything he had read in his guidebook about ancient 
Egypt. 

Poirot also heard Tim Allerton say, ‘It’s a horrible world ... ’ 

Rosalie Otterbourne answered, ‘It’s unfair; some people have 
everything.’ 

Poirot was glad that he was no longer young. 


32 



Chapter 3 Tragedy Strikes 

The Kamak 's next stop was at Abu Simbel. It was a beautiful, 
warm day and everybody wanted to see the ancient temple. 

Simon Doyle had a quiet word with Poirot. ‘I’m so glad we 
came on this trip. Linnet’s faced this business at last and we’ve 
agreed that we aren’t going to let Jackie upset us any more. We’re 
going to enjoy our honeymoon. That ought to show her.’ 

‘Yes,’ said Poirot thoughtfully. 

Linnet came along the deck, smiling and looking beautiful as 
usual. She greeted Poirot coolly and then took her husband away. 
Poirot realized that his critical attitude had made him unpopular. 
Linnet expected to be admired for everything she was or did. 

Soon the official guide led the group from the Karnak towards 
Abu Simbel. Poirot walked beside Andrew Pennington. 

‘Madame Doyle was telling me that you came over on the 
Carmanic. Did you meet some friends of mine who were on that 
ship - the Rushington Smiths?’ asked Poirot. 

‘I don’t remember the name. The boat was full and the 
weather was bad, so a lot of passengers rarely appeared.’ 

‘But now the pleasant coincidence of running into Madame 
Doyle and her husband. You had no idea they were married?’ 

‘No. Mrs Doyle had written, but I didn’t receive the letter until 
after our unexpected meeting in Cairo,’ explained Pennington. 
‘You have known her for many years, I understand?’ 

‘Since she was a small child. Her father and I were great 
friends. A very fine man, Melhuish Ridgeway — and a very 
successful one.’ 

‘His daughter will receive a very large fortune when her 
father dies, I understand. Ah, pardon * - that is a private matter.’ 
Andrew Pennington seemed slightly amused. ‘Oh, most 

* pardon: French for ‘sorry’ 


33 



people know that Linnet is a very wealthy woman.’ 

‘Will the recent Fall in the stock market affect her fortune?’ 

Pennington hesitated but finally said, ‘Yes, of course, to some 
degree. The financial situation for everyone is difficult these days.’ 

Inside the temple, Signor Richetti examined the painted walls 
and Dr Bessner read aloud to Cornelia from his guidebook. She 
listened with great attention until Miss Van Schuyler called for 
her. Poirot realized that someone was always either instructing 
the poor girl or giving her orders. 

Simon said suddenly, ‘Linnet, let’s get out of here. I don’t like 
these old figures. There’s something frightening about them.’ 

Linnet laughed, but they walked into the sunlight. Then they 
sat against the side of the hill. 

‘How lovely the sun is,’ thought Linnet. ‘How warm - how 
safe ... how lovely to be me - me ... me ... Linnet ... ’ 

Simon also looked content. What a fool he’d been to be 
worried that first night ... There was nothing to worry about ... 
Everything was all right ... After all, one could trust Jackie ... 

Suddenly, there was a shout — people were running towards 
him waving their arms. Simon jumped to his feet and dragged 
Linnet with him. Not a minute too soon. An enormous rock 
crashed down past them. If Linnet had remained where she was, 
she would have been killed. 

White-faced, Linnet and Simon held each other. Hercule 
Poirot and Tim Allerton ran up to them. 

‘Ma foi!* Madame, that was close.’ 

They saw nothing when they looked up at the hill. But Poirot 
remembered seeing some people walking along the path at the 
top when they had first stepped on shore. 

‘She’ll pay for this!’ Simon said violently. Then he looked 
quickly at Tim Allerton and was silent. 

* Mafoi!: a French expression of surprise 


34 



‘Was it an accident?’ wondered Tim aloud. ‘Or did some fool 
push it?’ 

Linnet was very pale and found it difficult to speak. ‘I think,’ 
she said slowly, ‘some fool must have pushed it.’ 

As they walked back to the Karnak, Simon stopped suddenly in 
surprise. Jacqueline de Bellefort was just coming off the boat. 

‘Good God!’ Simon whispered. ‘It was an accident, after all. 

I thought - I thought - ’ 

‘Good morning,’ Jacqueline said, and walked towards the 
temple. 

Poirot looked back at the beach. He could see Miss Van 
Schuyler and Miss Bowers, and there was Mrs Allerton with 
Mrs Otterbourne. He could not see the others. 

♦ 

The next day, most of the passengers from the Karnak decided 
to visit the Second Cataract. 

Hercule Poirot and Mrs Allerton walked slowly up the hill 
together. Mrs Allerton had learned to like the little man very 
much, although Tim was always trying to keep her away from 
him. She found herself suddenly telling him about her dislike of 
Joanna Southwood. 

Tim was chatting to Rosalie Otterbourne about his bad luck 
in life: poor health, but not bad enough to be interesting, very 
little money, nothing much to do. 

Rosalie interrupted, ‘But you have your mother! She looks 
lovely - so calm — but amusing, too.’ 

Tim was surprised and pleased. ‘Mother? She’s wonderful, 
isn’t she? It’s nice of you to see it.’ He was embarrassed that he 
couldn’t say anything nice about her mother. 

Miss Van Schuyler had stayed on the boat. She was too old 
for the climb up to the Second Cataract. She complained about 
Cornelia to Miss Bowers. 


35 



‘She rushed away without a word to me, and I saw her talking 
to that very unpleasant young man, Ferguson.’ 

Miss Bowers looked at the group as they walked down the 
hill. ‘Miss Robson is with Dr Bessner now.’ 

Miss Van Schuyler was pleased with this arrangement. She 
had learned that Dr Bessner was a well-known, fashionable 
doctor in Europe. She decided to be polite to him in case she 
needed his professional services before the journey was over. 

When the group returned to the Kaniak Linnet cried, ‘A 
telegram for me. How nice!’ She seized it from the board and 
opened it. 

‘I don’t understand — potatoes, beans, onions - what does it 
mean, Simon?’ 

Suddenly, an angry voice said, ‘Excuse me, that telegram is 
for me,’ and Signor Richetti took it rudely from her hand. 

‘I am so sorry, Signor Richetti. You see, my name was 
Ridgeway before I married, so ... 

She smiled at Signor Richetti, but he did not excuse her 
mistake just because she was pretty. 

‘Names should be read carefully,’ he said coldly. 

Linnet turned away. ‘These Italians are so rude,’ she said 
angrily to Simon. The two of them went on shore alone. 

Poirot, watching from the deck, turned to see Jacqueline de 
Bellefort beside him. Instead of looking amused or evil, she 
looked ill, as if a fire was burning inside her. 

‘They don’t care any more. I can’t hurt them. You were right. 

I ought not to have come, but I can’t go back. I will not allow 
them to be happy together. I’d rather kill him ... ’ 

She turned suddenly and hurried away. 

Poirot, staring after her, felt a hand on his shoulder. It was an 
old friend. Colonel Race, a man who travelled round the world 
solving important cases for the British government. He and 
Poirot had met a year previously, at a dinner party in London 


36 



that had ended with the death of their host. 

‘Your friend seems a bit upset, Monsieur Poirot.’ 

‘Colonel Race! What are you doing here?’ 

‘I’m on the return journey to Shellal with you. I’m interested 
in one of the Karnak 's passengers, but unfortunately I don’t 
know which one,’ explained Colonel Race rather mysteriously. 
‘There’s been a lot of political trouble out here — violence, 
murders. Our spies have told us that the cleverest of the leaders 
- the brains — is on this boat, but we don’t have his name or 
description. Have you got any ideas?’ 

‘An idea, but nothing more than that,’ Poirot said 
thoughtfully. 

Race knew that Poirot never spoke unless he was sure. 

Poirot rubbed his nose and said unhappily, ‘There is something 
else happening on this boat that is causing me much concern.’ 

‘Tell me about it,’ Race said with interest. 

‘Think about this,’ said Poirot. ‘A has wronged B. B desires 
revenge and threatens A. Both women are on this boat.’ 

‘Don’t worry,’ said Race. ‘People - especially women - 
who talk about what they are going to do don’t usually do it. 
Anything else?’ 

‘Yesterday A had a very close escape from death, the kind of 
death that might conveniently be called an accident.’ 

‘Arranged by B?’ 

‘No, that is the point. B did not do it. It was not possible.’ 

‘Then it was an accident. Coincidences do happen.’ 

‘I suppose so,’ agreed Poirot, ‘but I do not like such accidents.’ 

‘Is A a particularly unpleasant person?’ asked Race. 

‘Absolutely not. A is a charming, rich and beautiful young 
lady. And if I am right, and I am constantly in the habit of being 
right, then there is a matter for serious concern. And now you 
tell me there is a man on the Karnah who kills.’ 

‘He doesn’t usually kill charming young ladies.’ 


37 



‘Today I advised A, Madame Doyle, to take another route 
and not to return on this boat,’ said Poirot. ‘But she and her 
husband would not agree. I pray to heaven that we may arrive at 
Shellal without disaster - but I, Hercule Poirot, I am afraid.’ 

♦ 

On the following evening the Karuak stopped at Abu Simbel, 
giving the passengers the opportunity for a second visit to 
the temple. 

‘There’s so much to see!’ Cornelia Robson said excitedly to 
Mr Ferguson. ‘I wish Dr Bessner was here. He’d explain it all 
to me.’ 

‘How can you like that boring old fool? And that old woman. 
She treats you like a dog. You’re as good as they are!’ 

‘But I’m not,’ protested Cornelia. ‘Cousin Marie is very 
cultured, and ...’ 

‘Cultured! That word makes me sick.’ Ferguson paused. 
‘Don’t you realize - as an American — that everyone is born free 
and equal?’ 

‘Of course people aren’t equal,’ said Cornelia calmly. ‘I’m not 
beautiful and rich like Mrs Doyle.’ 

‘Mrs Doyle!’ shouted Ferguson. ‘She’s the sort of woman who 
ought to be shot as an example.’ 

There was an uncomfortable silence. But before they returned 
to the Karuak, Ferguson said, ‘You’re the nicest person on the 
boat. Remember that.’ 

Feeling unusually pleased, Cornelia hurried into the public 
lounge to find Miss Van Schuyler. 

The old lady looked at her watch. ‘You’ve been a long time!’ 
she said crossly. ‘And what have you done with my velvet shawl? 

I had it in here after dinner. It was on that chair.’ 

‘I can’t see it anywhere, Cousin Marie,’ said Cornelia after a 
quick search. 


38 



Miss Van Schuyler left the room in a bad temper, with 
Cornelia and Miss Bowers following behind. 

Most of the other passengers had also gone to bed early. The 
Doyles remained in the lounge, playing cards with Pennington 
and Colonel Race at a table in a corner. Fanthorp was reading 
a book. The only other passenger in the lounge was Hercule 
Poirot, who could not stop yawning. He, too, decided on an 
early night. 

As he walked sleepily towards his cabin, Poirot met Jacqueline 
hurrying along the deck. 

‘You look sleepy, Monsieur Poirot.’ 

‘Mais oui* - I can hardly keep my eyes open,’ said Poirot. ‘It 
lias been a very hot day — no wind at all.’ 

‘Yes,’ Jacqueline said thoughtfully. ‘It’s been the sort of day 
when things - break! When one can’t go on ... 

She seemed tense and nervous, but she relaxed when she said 
good night. Her eyes met his, just for a moment. Poirot remembered 
that look the next day. Had there been a cry for help? 

He continued to his cabin. 

After dealing with Miss Van Schuyler’s many needs, Cornelia 
decided that she was not sleepy and returned to the public 
lounge. She looked up from her sewing when the door opened 
and Jacqueline de Bellefort came in. Jacqueline pressed the bell 
for a waiter, then sat down with Cornelia. 

k A lovely night,’ Jacqueline commented. ‘A real honeymoon 
night, isn’t it?’ Her eyes rested on Linnet Doyle. 

When the waiter arrived, Jacqueline ordered a large drink. 
Simon looked up from his cards with a faint line of worry on 
his forehead. 

When her drink came, Jacqueline picked it up and said, ‘Well, 
here’s to crime.’ She finished it quickly and ordered another. 

* mais oui: a French expression of agreement 


39 



Again, Simon looked across the room at her. He seemed to 
lose his concentration in the card game, and soon Linnet and 
Colonel Race stood up to leave 

‘Coming, Simon?’ asked Linnet. 

‘Not yet. I think I’ll have a drink first.’ 

Pennington finished his drink and left. Cornelia began to 
gather up her sewing. 

‘Please don’t go to bed, Miss Robson,’ said Jacqueline. ‘Don’t 
leave me. We girls must support each other.’ 

Cornelia sat down again. 

Jacqueline’s second drink arrived, and she began to sing 
quietly: ‘He was her man and he did her wrong ... ’ 

Mr Fanthorp turned a page of his book. Simon Doyle picked 
up a magazine. 

‘Really, I think I’ll go to bed,’ said Cornelia. ‘It’s very late.’ 

‘I forbid you to go,’ Jacqueline replied. ‘Tell me about 
yourself.’ 

Cornelia was confused. Obviously Jacqueline was drinking 
too much. But there was something else ... Jacqueline was 
talking to her - was looking at her - but it seemed that the 
words she said were meant for someone else. But Cornelia did 
as requested and began tellingjacqueline every detail of her life. 
Again, she sensed that Jacqueline was listening to something 
else — or perhaps for something else? 

Then Jacqueline turned her head and spoke to Simon Doyle: 
‘Ring the bell, Simon. I want another drink.’ 

‘It’s late - and you’ve had enough to drink, Jackie.’ 

Jacqueline laughed. ‘Simon’s afraid I’m going to tell you the 
story of my life,’ she said to Cornelia. ‘He treated me rather 
badly, didn’t you, Simon?’ 

Cornelia was deeply embarrassed, but also pleasantly excited. 
What an angry look Simon Doyle had on his face. 

‘You’re drunk,’ he said. ‘You’re making a fool of yourself.’ 


40 



Cornelia began to stand up. ‘I really must — it’s so late 

“No, stay and listen. He’s embarrassed. He wants me to behave 
“well ”, don’t you, Simon? But I’m going to talk — a lot.’ 

Jim Fanthorp carefully shut his book, yawned, looked at his 
watch and left the room. A very British performance. 

Jacqueline stared at Simon. ‘I told you,’ she said, ‘that I’d kill 
you before I’d let you go to another woman ... You don’t think 

J 

I meant that? You’re wrong. I’ve only been — waiting. You’re 
mine. Do you hear?’ 

Simon remained silent. Jacqueline reached into in her handbag, 
and then leant forward with something shiny in her hand. 

‘I'll shoot you like a dog - like the dirty dog you are 

Simon jumped to his feet, but at the same moment Jacqueline 
fired the gun. 

Simon fell, twisted across a chair ... Cornelia screamed and 
rushed to the door. Jim Fanthorp was outside on the deck. 

‘Mr Fanthorp!’ Cornelia cried. ‘Oh! She’s shot him!’ 

Simon Doyle still lay across the chair. Jacqueline stood 
staring at the blood on his trouser leg, where he was holding a 
handkerchief to the wound. 

‘I didn’t mean ... Oh, my God, I didn’t really mean ... ’ 

The pistol dropped from her nervous fingers to the floor. She 
kicked it away and it slid under one of the sofas. 

Simon whispered: ‘Fanthorp - there’s someone coming ... 
Say it’s all right — an accident - something.’ 

Fanthorp spoke quickly to the waiter who was hurrying 
through the door: ‘All right - everything’s all right. Just a bit of 
fun.’ The Nubian left again. 

Jacqueline began crying uncontrollably. ‘Oh, God, I want to 
die ... Oh, what have I done — what have I done?’ 

Simon’s face was twisted with pain. ‘Take her to her cabin, 
Fanthorp. Miss Robson, get that hospital nurse of yours to look 
after her. Don’t leave her alone. Then bring old Bessner here. 


41 



And please don’t let any news of this get to my wife.’ 

Fanthorp and Cornelia soon had Jacqueline back in her cabin, 
but she would not calm down. ‘I’ll kill myself ... Oh, Simon 

— Simon!’ 

Fanthorp said to Cornelia, ‘Find Miss Bowers. I’ll stay 
with her.’ 

‘Simon could bleed to death!’Jacqueline cried. ‘I must help 
him. Let me go!’ 

Fanthorp held her by her shoulders. ‘Quietly - quietly. You 
must stay here. He’ll be all right.’ 

Very soon Cornelia returned with Miss Bowers, who 
immediately took charge of the situation. 

Some minutes later, Fanthorp managed to wake the heavily 
sleeping Dr Bessner and the two men hurried back to the lounge. 
Simon, grey-faced, had his head against an open window, 
breathing in the cool night air. The handkerchief now lay in a 
pool of blood on the floor. 

The doctor examined Simon’s leg and said, ‘Yes, it is bad ... 
The bone is broken. And he has lost a lot of blood. Mr Fanthorp, 
you and I must carry him to my cabin. He cannot walk.’ 

There, Dr Bessner took care of Simon’s bullet wound and 
then gave him something to help him sleep. 

‘What should we do about your wife?’ he asked. 

Simon said weakly, ‘She needn’t know until morning. And I 

— you mustn’t blame Jackie. I treated her badly. She didn’t know 
what she was doing .... Someone ought to stay with her. She 
might hurt herself — ’ 

‘It’s all right, Mr Doyle,’ said Fanthorp. ‘Miss Bowers is going 
to stay with her all night.’ 

Simon relaxed, then opened his eyes again. ‘Fanthorp?’ he 
called. ‘The pistol ... ought not to leave it lying about.’ 

Fanthorp understood. ‘Quite right. I’ll go and get it now.’ 

Three minutes later, he was back at Bessner’s cabin. He spoke 


42 



quietly to the doctor. 

‘I can’t find that pistol. I saw the girl drop it and kick it under 
a sofa, but it isn’t there now.’ 

They stared at each other, puzzled and rather alarmed. 

♦ 

The next morning, Hercule Poirot was shaving when Colonel 
Race hurried into his cabin. 

‘Your feeling was correct. It’s happened,’ Race began. ‘Linnet 
Doyle’s dead - shot through the head last night.’ 

Poirot was silent for a minute. Two memories came back 
to him very clearly. First, a girl in a garden in Assuan saying, 
‘There are moments when I want to hurt her - to put my pistol 
against her head and shoot her - ’ And the same voice saying 
more recently, ‘Yes ... it’s been the sort of day when things 
- break! When one can’t go on ... ’ Why had he not answered 
her cry for help? He had been blind, deaf, stupid with his need 
for sleep ... 

The two men went to Linnet’s cabin, where they found Dr 
Bessner examining the body. 

‘What can you tell us, Doctor, about this business?’ asked 
Race. 

‘The gun was held against her head. The bullet entered just 
above the ear. The skin is burned and black around the bullet 
hole. The murderer shot her as she lay sleeping.’ 

‘No///* Poirot cried out. This description did not fit with his 
picture of Jacqueline de Bellefort. She would not act in this way. 

Then Poirot looked up and saw a big, shaky letter J written 
in a brownish-red colour on the white wall next to Linnet’s 
bed. He lifted the dead girl’s right hand and found the same 
brownish-red colour on one of her fingers. 

* non: French for ‘no’ 


43 



‘What do you think of that?’ asked Race. 

‘It is very simple, is it not? Madame Doyle is dying; she wishes 
to name her killer, and so she writes with her finger, using her 
own blood, the first letter of her murderer’s name. It has often 
been done in crime novels. It makes me think that our murderer 
is — old-fashioned!’ 

‘What does J stand for?’ asked Race. 

Poirot answered immediately. ‘J is for Jacqueline de Bellefort, 
a young lady who has a pistol and who told me less than a week 
ago that she would like to shoot Madame Doyle.’ 

Bessner said, ‘We will have to remove the bullet to be certain 
about the gun.’ 

‘What about the time of death?’ asked Race. 

‘She has been dead certainly for six hours and probably not 
longer than eight. So she was murdered between midnight and 
two o’clock in the morning.’ 

‘Where is her husband?’ asked Race. 

‘At the moment he is sleeping in my cabin,’ said Dr Bessner. 
‘I see from your surprise that you have not been told that Mr 
Doyle was shot last night in the public lounge.’ 

‘Shot? By whom?’ 

‘By the young lady, Jacqueline de Bellefort. The bone in his 
leg is badly broken. He needs hospital treatment.’ 

‘The captain has given us an office,’ Race said. ‘Our first job 
is to get all the facts.’ 


Chapter 4 Everyone is a Suspect 

In the office, Colonel Race and Poirot began their enquiry. 

First, they listened to Dr Bessner’s thorough report of the 
previous night. 

Race said, ‘It seems clear enough. The girl got excited, helped 


44 



bv a drink or two, and finally shot Simon Doyle. Then she went 

J 

along to Linnet Doyle’s cabin and shot her too.’ 

‘No, I do not think that was possible ,’ Bessner interrupted. ‘First, 
she was never alone after she shot Mr Doyle. And second, why 
would she write the first letter of her own name on the wall?’ 

‘It would not be her style,’ agreed Poirot. ‘But perhaps 
someone else wanted to direct our attention to her? Who 
discovered the crime?’ 

‘Mrs Doyle’s maid, Louise Bourget. She went to call Mrs 
I )oyle as usual, found her dead, came out of the cabin and fainted. 
The captain was called and then he came to me,’ reported Race. 
‘Doyle’s got to be told. You say he’s asleep still?’ 

‘Yes, in my cabin,’ Bessner said. ‘I gave him a strong sleeping 
drug last night.’ 

‘Thank you, Doctor,’ said Race. ‘I don’t think we need to 
keep you longer. We’ll begin to question the other passengers.’ 

As they waited for Fanthorp and Miss Robson, witnesses to 
what had happened to Simon Doyle, Race said, ‘This is bad. 
Have you any ideas about this murder?’ 

‘My ideas are not in good order,’ Poirot replied. ‘We know, 
you see, that this girl wanted to kill Linnet Doyle.’ 

‘But would she do it in this way?’ asked Race. ‘Could she?’ 

‘She would have the brains for this murder, and the motive. 
But I doubt if, physically, she could face committing the act ... ’ 

‘I see,’ agreed Race. ‘And remember, Bessner also said it was 
physically impossible.’ 

‘I hope that is true,’ Poirot said and paused. ‘I shall be glad if 
it is, because I am sympathetic to that little one.’ 

The door opened. Fanthorp and Cornelia Robson entered. 

Race began, ‘I said good night to Mrs Doyle at her cabin 
door at eleven twenty. Who remained in the public lounge after 
she left?’ 

Fanthorp answered, ‘Doyle was there. And Miss de Bellefort. 


45 



Myself and Miss Robson.’ 

‘That’s right,’ agreed Cornelia. ‘Mr Pennington went to bed 
a few minutes after Mrs Doyle.’ 

‘So what was everyone doing after Pennington left?’ 

‘Mr Fanthorp was reading a book. I’d got some sewing, Miss 
de Bellefort was — she was — ’ 

‘Drinking quite heavily.’ Mr Fanthorp helped her. 

‘And she was talking to me, but I think most of her comments 
were meant for Mr Doyle,’ said Cornelia. ‘He was getting 
angry, but he kept quiet. I think he hoped she would calm 
down, but she didn’t, and she wouldn’t let me leave the lounge. 
I was getting very uncomfortable with the situation. Then Mr 
Fanthorp left.’ 

‘It was a little embarrassing, so I left quietly,’ said Fanthorp. 

‘Then she pulled out a pistol,’ continued Cornelia, ‘and Mr 
Doyle jumped up to try and take it from her, and it shot him 
in the leg; and then she began to cry — and I was frightened to 
death and ran out after Mr Fanthorp. Mr Doyle wanted to keep 
everything quiet, so we took Jacqueline to her cabin, and Mr 
Fanthorp stayed with her while I got Miss Bowers.’ 

‘What time was this?’ Race asked. 

Cornelia hesitated, but Fanthorp said, ‘It was about twenty 
minutes past twelve. I know it was actually half past twelve 
when I finally got to my cabin.’ 

‘Now let me be quite sure on one or two points,’ said Poirot. 
‘After Madame Doyle left the lounge, did any of the four of you 
leave it?’ 

Fanthorp answered immediately, ‘No. I’m positive. Neither 
Doyle, Miss de Bellefort, Miss Robson, nor myself left the 
lounge.’ 

‘So Mademoiselle de Bellefort did not leave the lounge and 
shoot Madame Doyle before twenty past twelve. Mademoiselle 
Robson, when you went to fetch Mademoiselle Bowers, was 


46 



Jacqueline de Bellefort alone in her cabin at any time?’ 

‘No. Mr Fanthorp stayed with her.’ 

‘She has a perfect alibi. But Monsieur Doyle, you say, was 
very anxious that she should not be left alone. Was he afraid, do 
you think, that she was considering another foolish act?’ 

J 

‘That’s my opinion,’ said Fanthorp. ‘He was afraid she 
might even try to kill herself. She kept saying she would be 
better dead.’ 

Cornelia said shyly, ‘Mr Doyle said it was all his fault — that 
he’d treated her badly. He spoke quite nicely about her.’ 

Poirot looked thoughtful. ‘Now what happened to that pistol? 
Tell me exactly what happened.’ 

‘Miss de Bellefort let the gun fall. Then she kicked it away and 
it went under a sofa,’ Fanthorp continued, explaining how he had 
gone back to search for it, but had not been able to find it. 

‘So we arrive at this point. When Mademoiselle de Bellefort 
left the lounge, the pistol was under the sofa. After that, she had 
no opportunity to return to the lounge for it. What time was it. 
Monsieur Fanthorp, when you went back to look for it?’ 

‘Just before half past twelve - about five minutes after Dr 
Bessner and I carried Doyle out of the lounge.’ 

‘In those few minutes someone — not Mademoiselle de 
Bellefort — took that pistol from under the sofa. It seems very 
probable that the person who removed it was the murderer of 
Madame Doyle. And also that this person had heard or seen 
Mademoiselle de Bellefort shoot Doyle.’ 

'I don’t see how you can know that,’ objected Fanthorp. 

‘You have told us that the pistol was hidden under the 
sofa. Therefore it is hardly possible that it was discovered by 
accident. It was taken by someone who knew it was there,’ 
explained Poirot. 

Fanthorp shook his head. ‘I saw nobody when I went out on 
the deck just before Miss de Bellefort shot Doyle.’ 


47 



‘But you were outside on the right side of the boat. From that 
position one cannot see someone on the opposite side looking 
through the glass door of the public lounge. Did anyone except 
the waiter hear the shot?’ Poirot asked. 

‘No. The windows and doors were closed because Miss Van 
Schuyler felt cold earlier in the evening,’ answered Fanthorp. 

Race added, ‘No one seems to have heard the other shot 
— the shot that killed Mrs Doyle.’ 

‘For the moment, let us concentrate on the First shooting,’ 
Poirot said. ‘We must speak to Mademoiselle Bowers. But first, 
before we finish here, may we have a little information about 
the two of you?’ 

Fanthorp and Miss Robson gave their full names, addresses 
and professions. Then Poirot asked Fanthorp, ‘And your reasons 
for visiting this country?’ 

‘Er — pleasure - a holiday,’ Fanthorp answered after a pause. 

‘Very well, Monsieur Fanthorp. A final question: Did you 
hear anything at all after you went to your cabin?’ 

Fanthorp thought for a moment. ‘I went to bed very quickly. 
I think I heard something as I was falling asleep — a splash. 
Nothing else.’ 

‘Did the splash seem close? What time was it?’ 

‘I was half asleep, but I think it was about one o’clock. I don’t 
know how close it was.’ 

‘Thank you.’ Poirot turned to Cornelia. ‘Now, Mademoiselle 
Robson. What did you do after helping Dr Bessner with 
Monsieur Doyle’s leg?’ 

‘I went to my cabin, the one next to Miss de Bellefort. 
The boat’s against the bank on my side, so I didn’t hear any 
splashes.’ 

Poirot thanked Fanthorp and Cornelia, and they left. 

‘According to three witnesses, Jacqueline de Bellefort did not 
pick up the pistol after she kicked it under the sofa,’ said Race. 


48 



Miss Bowers was next in the office. After the usual questions, 
Poirot asked, ‘How is Mademoiselle Van Schuyler’s health?’ 

‘There’s nothing seriously wrong with her,’ replied Miss 
Bowers. ‘She’s just old. She likes plenty of attention and can 
pay for it.’ 

‘Please tell us about Mademoiselle de Bellefort last night.’ 

‘Miss Robson came for me and told me what had happened. Miss 
de Bellefort had drunk a large amount of alcohol. She was excited 
and upset. I gave her a drug to calm her, and I sat with her.’ 

‘Did either of you leave her cabin at any time?’ 

‘No. I was in the cabin with her until early this morning. I 
am absolutely sure that she didn’t leave.’ 

After the nurse went out, the two men looked at each other. 
Jacqueline de Bellefort was definitely not the murderer. So who 
had shot Linnet Doyle? 

‘Someone took the pistol, thinking thatjacqueline de Bellefort 
would be accused of the murder,’ said Race. ‘But that person 
- the real murderer - did not know that Miss Bowers would 
be with Miss de Bellefort all night. Add this to the fact that 
someone — again not Miss de Bellefort — had already attempted 
to kill Linnet Doyle at the temple. Who was that person?’ 

Poirot said, ‘Doyle, the Allertons, Mademoiselle Van Schuyler 
and Mademoiselle Bowers were within my sight at the temple. 
They did not push the rock, but there are others to consider.’ 

Their discussion was interrupted by the entrance ofjacqueline 
de Bellefort. Race left her alone with Poirot. 

‘I didn’t do it,’ she said in the voice of a frightened child. ‘Oh, 
please believe me. It’s awful.’ 

Poirot gently touched her shoulder. ‘Do not be upset. We know 
that you did not kill Madame Doyle. It is proved, mon enfant.'* 

‘But who did?’Jacqueline asked tearfully. 

* mon enfant : French for ‘my child’ 


49 



‘That,’ said Poirot, ‘is the question we are asking ourselves. 
You cannot help us, my child?’ 

Jacqueline shook her head. ‘I don’t know,’ she said. ‘I can’t 
think of anyone who wanted her dead ... except me.’ 

She looked down, nervously twisting her fingers, and 
suddenly cried out, ‘Death’s horrible - horrible! I - hate the 
thought of it.’ 

Poirot said, ‘Yes. It is not pleasant, is it, to think that someone 
is at this moment celebrating his or her success.’ 

‘Please, stop!’Jacqueline shouted. Then in a quiet voice: ‘I wanted 
her dead - and she is dead - and she died - just like I said.’ 

‘Yes, Mademoiselle. She was shot through the head.’ 

‘Then I was right, that night at the Cataract Hotel. There was 
someone listening.’ 

‘Ah! I wondered if you would remember that evening. It is 
too much of a coincidence that Madame Doyle was killed in just 
the way you described.’ 

Jacqueline’s voice shook. ‘That man that night — who was he?’ 

Poirot was silent for a minute or two, then said, ‘You are sure 
it was a man, Mademoiselle?’ 

Jacqueline looked at him in surprise and said slowly, ‘I thought it 
was a man ... but it was really just a — a figure — a shadow ... ’ 

The door opened and Dr Bessner appeared. 

‘Will you come and speak with Mr Doyle, please, Monsieur 
Poirot? He would like to see you.’ 

Jacqueline jumped up. She caught Bessner by the arm. 

‘Is he all right? He’s not going to die?’ she cried. 

‘Who said anything about dying? We will get him to hospital 
for proper treatment.’ 

The girl’s face relaxed and she sat down again while Poirot 
hurried off to Bessner’s cabin to speak to Doyle. 

Poirot stood in the doorway and examined Doyle’s face, 
which showed pain, shock, but also child-like confusion. 


50 



Simon whispered, ‘Please come in. I simply can’t believe that 
Linnet is dead. But Jackie didn’t do it. She wouldn’t murder 
someone in cold blood.’ 

Poirot said gently, ‘Mademoiselle de Bellefort did not 
shoot your wife. But who else wanted to kill her?’ 

Simon shook his head. ‘Apart from Jackie, there’s nobody. Of 
course, there’s Windlesham. She refused him and married me, 
but lie’s in Canada now. And there’s old Sir George Wode, who 
was unhappy about selling his house and seeing Linnet make all 
those changes, but he’s in London.’ 

‘Monsieur Doyle,’ Poirot said seriously, ‘I had a conversation 
with Madame, your wife, on the first day on the Karnak. She 
said she felt afraid, unsafe. She felt that everyone around her was 
an enemy.’ 

‘We were both upset at finding Jackie on the boat.’ 

‘That is understandable, but it does not quite explain Madame 
Doyle’s feelings,’ continued Poirot. 

‘Well, there was a name on the passenger list that upset her. 
She said it was someone whose father had done business with 
her father and had lost everything. Linnet said, “It’s awful when 
people hate you without even knowing you”.’ 

‘You are quite sure that she did not mention this man’s name?’ 

‘I didn’t really pay much attention,’ Simon Doyle said. 

Bessner said dryly, ‘I can have a guess. I heard that young 
man Ferguson criticize Mrs Doyle once or twice.’ 

‘We must not form theories until we talk to everyone,’ advised 
Poirot. ‘We ought to interview the maid first. Can we do that 
here? Monsieur Doyle’s presence might be helpful.’ 

‘Yes, that’s a good idea,’ said Simon. 

‘Had she been with your wife long?’ 

‘Just a couple of months, that’s all.’ 

‘Only a couple of months? And had Madame any valuable 
jewellery?’ 


51 



‘There were her pearls,’ said Simon. ‘She once told me they 
were worth about fifty thousand pounds. My God, do you think 
those pearls ...?’ 

‘Robbery is a possible but unlikely motive. Let us see 
the maid.’ 

Louise Bourget was the attractive, dark-haired woman 
who Poirot had noticed one day, but now she looked sad and 
frightened. 

‘When did you last see Madame Doyle alive?’ 

‘Last night, Monsieur. I helped her to undress, and then I 
went to my cabin on the deck below some time after eleven.’ 

‘Did you see or hear anything unusual last night?’ asked 
Poirot. 

‘My cabin is on the other side of the boat, on the deck below. 
Naturally, if I had been unable to sleep and if I had climbed the 
stairs, then perhaps I would have seen this killer enter or leave 
Madame’s cabin, but - what can I say?’ 

‘My good girl,’ Simon said roughly, ‘I’ll look after you. 
Nobody’s accusing you of anything.’ 

‘And you know of no one on this boat who would want to 
hurt Madame Doyle?’ asked Poirot. 

The maid’s answer surprised everyone. ‘Yes, that I do know. 
There was Mademoiselle de Bellefort, of course, but there was 
also someone else who disliked Madame.’ 

‘Good lord!’ Simon cried. ‘What’s all this?’ 

Louise went on excitedly, ‘Yes, yes, yes, it is as I say! 
Madame’s former maid, Marie, was engaged to marry one 
of the engineers on this boat. But Madame Doyle discovered 
that this man, Fleetwood, already had a wife in Egypt. Marie 
ended the engagement, but Fleetwood was very angry. When 
he found out that Madame was on this boat, he told me that she 
had ruined his life and he would like to kill her!’ 

Poirot turned to Simon. ‘Had you any idea of this?’ 


52 



‘None, and I doubt if Linnet even knew that the man was on 
the boat. She had probably forgotten all about the affair.’ 

Poirot turned sharply to the maid. ‘Did you say anything 
about Fleetwood to Madame Doyle?’ 

‘No, Monsieur, of course not.’ 

‘And do you know anything about Madame’s pearls?’ 

‘Her pearls?’ Louise’s eyes opened wide. ‘She was wearing 
them last night. She put them on the table beside her bed, as 
always.’ 

‘And did you see them this morning?’ asked the detective. 

‘Mon Dieu!* I did not even look.’ 

‘You did not look,’ said Poirot. ‘But I -1 have eyes which notice, 
and there were no pearls on the bedside table this morning.’ 

After searching Linnet Doyle’s cabin and failing to Find her 
pearls, Poirot and Colonel Race returned to their office. 

‘What do we know now?’ asked Race. 

‘Aha! I see you have had an idea, my friend,’ Poirot answered. 

‘Yes. I was thinking about the sound that Fanthorp mentioned. 
It’s possible that after the murder, the killer threw the pistol into 
the water. It was not in Mrs Doyle’s cabin.’ 

‘Ah, the logical place for the pistol is in Mademoiselle de 
Bellefort’s cabin, but perhaps it has not yet been put there.’ 

‘Yes, I see,’ said Race thoughtfully. ‘But now there are the 
missing pearls and the man Fleetwood. It seems obvious that the 
pearls have been stolen.’ 

‘But it was an odd moment to choose for a robbery, was 
it not? And why would a thief kill a sleeping woman? It is 
unsatisfactory ... You know, I have a little idea about those 
pearls - but - no - it is impossible. Because if my idea was right, 
the pearls would be in Madame Doyle’s cabin. Tell me, what did 
you think of the maid?’ 

* Mon Dieu!: French for‘My God!’ 


53 



i wondered,’ said Race slowly, ‘if she knew more than 
she said.’ 

‘Ah, you too had that impression? I would not trust her.’ 

‘Do you think she had something to do with the murder?’ 

‘The theft of the pearls is more probable — maids have been 
known to be members of gangs that steal jewellery. But that 
explanation does not quite satisfy me. My other idea ought to be 
right, but — ’ Poirot stopped. 

‘What about the man Fleetwood?’ asked Race. 

‘He may give us our solution,’ said Poirot. ‘He had a motive 
for revenge, and it is possible that he heard the scene between 
Mademoiselle de Bellefort and Monsieur Doyle and removed 
the pistol from the public lounge without anyone noticing. But 
that solution seems too simple, too easy.’ 

‘Any other possibilities?’ asked Race. 

‘Plenty, my friend. There is, for example, the American 
trustee, Pennington. Did he accidentally meet Linnet and 
Simon Doyle? And accidentally have a number of papers for 
Linnet to sign? Did he hope that she would sign them without 
reading them? Had he used her money for his own business? I 
know that is the way in all detective novels - but it happens, my 
friend, it happens .’ 

‘I don’t doubt it,’ said Race. 

‘But Madame Doyle wanted to read each paper before signing. 
And then her husband made an important remark.’ 

‘What was that?’ 

‘He says - “I sign where they tell me to sign.” Pennington 
saw the importance of that. If the wife died, the new husband 
would have her fortune, and he would sign anything. Mon cher 
Colonel * I saw the thought pass through Pennington’s head.’ 

‘But you’ve no proof,’ said Race dryly. 

* man cher Colonel: French for ‘my dear Colonel’ 


54 



i have not.’ 

‘Might young Ferguson be the one whose father was ruined 
by old Ridgeway? Or there’s the man I’m looking for - he’s a 
killer, but it’s unlikely that he knew Mrs Doyle.’ 

Their discussion was interrupted by a knock on the door and 
Fleetwood, a big, angry-looking man, entered the room. 

‘You wanted to see me?’ he asked rather rudely. 

‘We did,’ said Race. ‘You probably know that a murder was 
committed on this boat last night? And I believe you had reason 
to feel anger against the woman who was killed.’ 

A look of alarm appeared in Fleetwood’s eyes. ‘Who told you 
that?’ he shouted. ‘That lying French girl!’ 

‘You were going to marry the girl Marie, but Miss Ridgeway 
discovered you were a married man already.’ 

‘What business was it of hers? My wife returned to Egypt 
- I hadn’t seen her for more than six years. Marie wouldn’t 
know about her if that grand lady hadn’t involved herself in our 
business. I was angry, but I’m not a murderer. I was asleep in my 
cabin all night - and the man I share it with was too.’ 

After Fleetwood left, Race and Poirot agreed that he was 
probably telling the truth, but they would check his alibi. 

‘I, too, slept all night,’ remarked Poirot. ‘Very deeply. I heard 
nothing at all.’ 

‘Let’s hope we have more luck with the people on the right 
side of the boat,’ Race said as Mrs Allerton arrived, looking 
quite upset. 

‘It’s too horrible,’ she said. ‘That lovely creature — dead. 
Monsieur Poirot, I’m glad you are on board.’ 

‘If you please, a few questions. You went to bed when?’ 

‘Tim and I went to our cabins early. I went to bed just after 
half past ten. I fell asleep immediately.’ 

‘And did you hear anything during the night?’ 

Mrs Allerton concentrated. ‘Yes, I think I heard a splash and 


55 



someone running. I had the idea that someone had fallen in, 
but it was like a dream - and then I woke up and listened, and 
everything was quite quiet.’ 

‘Had you actually met Madame Doyle before?’ asked Poirot. 

‘No. Tim had met her, and I’d heard a lot about her through 
our cousin, Joanna Southwood.’ 

‘One more question, Madame, if you will pardon me for 
asking.’ 

Mrs Allerton smiled faintly. ‘Of course.’ 

‘Did you or your family ever suffer any financial loss as a 
result of the business affairs of Madame Doyle’s father, Melhuish 
Ridgeway?’ 

Mrs Allerton looked very surprised. ‘Oh, no! We don’t have 
much, but we still have the money my husband left for us.’ 

Tim Allerton, too, had gone to bed early and had heard 
somebody running along the deck and a splash. 

‘A splash? Was it perhaps a shot?’ asked Poirot. 

‘Perhaps it was a shot, or a cork from a bottle. There were 
loud voices, and I thought someone was having a party. But 
then everything went quiet and I fell asleep again.’ 

Miss Van Schuyler, who entered the room with an almost 
poisonous expression of displeasure, was next to be interviewed. 
Linnet Doyle’s cabin lay between Simon Doyle’s and hers. 

‘I do not wish to be involved in any way in this very unpleasant 
affair,’ she said. 

Poirot said politely, ‘Of course, Mademoiselle. We wish to 
free you from unpleasantness as quickly as possible. Just a few 
questions. First, you went to bed last night - at what time?’ 

‘Ten o’clock is my usual time. Last night I went later because 
Cornelia Robson, very rudely, kept me waiting.’ 

‘Tres bien.* Now what did you hear after you were in bed?’ 

* tres bien : French for ‘very well’ 


56 



‘I was awakened by Mrs Doyle’s rather loud maid, who said, 
“Bonne unit, Madame”* Then I went to sleep again until I heard 
someone in Mrs Doyle’s cabin next door. Then someone outside 
on the deck, and then a splash.’ 

‘You have no idea what time this was?’ 

‘I can tell you the time exactly. I looked at my little clock and 
it was ten minutes past one. And I know who was responsible 
for the splash because I got up and looked out.’ 

Colonel Race sat up. ‘You know?’ 

‘Certainly. I saw Miss Otterbourne leaning over the side of 
the boat. She had just dropped something into the water. I saw 
her face very clearly.’ 

‘And what did her face look like, Mademoiselle?’ 

‘She was very upset - too emotional to see me. Then she 
walked away and I returned to bed.’ 

There was a knock at the door and the captain entered. He 
carried something in his hand. 

‘We’ve got it, Colonel,’ he said with excitement. 

Race took the package and slowly unwrapped several layers 
of wet velvet cloth. Out of it fell a cheap handkerchief with a 
faint pink stain on it. Inside was a small pearl-handled pistol. 

‘I was right,’ Race said to Poirot. ‘It was thrown into the 
water. Is it the pistol you saw at the Cataract Hotel that night?’ 

Poirot examined the gun carefully, then he said quietly, ‘Yes 
- here are the initials JB.’ 

Race opened the pistol and said, ‘Two bullets fired. There 
seems no doubt that this is the murder weapon.’ 

‘And what about my shawl?’ demanded Miss Van Schuyler. ‘I 
was asking everyone if they had seen it last night.’ 

‘This is yours?’ asked Race, picking up the wet cloth. ‘The 
murderer wrapped it round the pistol to soften the noise of the 

* Bonne nuit, Madame. French for‘Good night. Madam’. 


57 



shot. You can see the burn marks from the bullet.’ 

‘Shocking!’ said Miss Van Schuyler crossly. 

‘Miss Van Schuyler, how well did you know Mrs Doyle?’ 

‘I had never met her before. Her family had money, but they 
were nobodies — not our type of people.’ 

When the old woman left, the two men looked at each 
other. 

‘Can we believe her story?’ asked Race. 

‘It does not make sense!’ Poirot cried. ‘Someone shot Linnet 
Doyle and wrote the letter J on the wall. We would expect 
that person to leave the pistol in Madame Doyle’s cabin for 
someone to find. Therefore, why was the pistol thrown into the 
water? Why, my friend, why? The series of events is impossible. 
Something is wrong.’ 

‘Shall we talk to Rosalie Otterbourne next?’ Race 
suggested. 

When she arrived, the girl looked unwilling, but not 
nervous. 

‘You know that we are making enquiries about Mrs Doyle’s 
death. Will you tell me what you did last night?’ Race asked. 

‘Mother and I went to bed early - before eleven. We heard 
voices outside Dr Bessner’s cabin, but nothing else.’ 

‘Did you leave your cabin at all last night?’ 

‘No, definitely not.’ 

‘Miss Van Schuyler says that she saw you throwing something 
into the water at ten minutes past one.’ 

‘It’s a complete lie. Did she see anything else?’ 

‘No, but she heard someone moving about in Madame 
Doyle’s cabin.’ 

Rosalie Otterbourne now looked extremely pale. 

‘Do you still insist that you threw nothing into the water, 
Mademoiselle?’ asked Poirot. ‘There might be an innocent 
reason. You see, Mademoiselle, something was thrown into the 


58 



water last night - something that was not innocent.’ 

Race held out the shawl and showed the girl its contents. 

‘Was that — what - she was killed with?’ Rosalie asked 
nervously. ‘And you think I killed Linnet Doyle? I don’t even 
know her. That old woman is probably half blind anyway. It 
wasn’t me she saw. Can I go now?’ 

After she had left, Poirot shook his head. ‘Neither of those 
two women was being totally honest.’ 

‘Well, let’s continue the questioning. Mrs Otterbourne is next.’ 

The novelist agreed with her daughter’s statement about her 
bedtime, but she could not say whether Rosalie had left their 
cabin or not. Mrs Otterbourne, excited by the crime itself, 
expressed her belief that the motive was about sex and jealousy. 
Poirot explained that neither Jacqueline de Bellefort nor Simon 
Doyle could be the murderer, but this did not stop the novelist’s 
romantic imagination. 

‘Of course. How silly of me! It was Miss Bowers! She was 
probably jealous of the happy couple. They had something she 
could never dream of having. She’s just the type: unattractive, 
respectable, with no experience of real emotions —’ 

‘Thank you, Mrs Otterbourne,’ said Race, as he led her 
quickly to the door. ‘Your suggestions have been very helpful. 
Ah, Signor Richetti, please come in.’ 

The Italian was very upset by the whole business. ‘What a 
terrible thing! A woman so young and so beautiful!’ 

He had gone to bed very early, had read for some time and 
had turned his light out before eleven. He thought he had heard 
a splash a few hours later, but he was not sure about the time. 

Race and Poirot moved on to Mr Ferguson, who answered 
their questions with his usual rudeness. 

‘What time did you go to bed last night?’ asked Race. 

‘At about midnight, but I don’t have to tell you anything.’ 

‘Did you hear a shot, or something like a cork?’ 


59 



‘Yes, I think I did, but there were people running around, a 
lot of noise on the deck above, so I’m not sure what it was.’ 

‘Did you hear a splash?’ 

‘I think I heard a splash, but with all the noise I can’t be sure. 
But I’m sorry that I missed the opportunity to join in the good 
work. Mrs Doyle did nothing for the world.’ 

After Ferguson left, Poirot asked, ‘You don’t think he is the 
man you are looking for?’ 

‘I don’t think so. I quite like him. But one job at a time. Let’s 
talk to Pennington.’ 

Andrew Pennington walked into the room, wearing a 
black tie. 

‘Gentlemen,’ he said sadly, ‘this business has really shocked 
me! Little Linnet!’ 

Race said, ‘Mr Pennington, did you hear anything last night?’ 

‘I heard some noise outside Dr Bessner’s cabin at about 
midnight. He’s next door at number forty. But it didn’t mean 
anything to me at the time. After that I went to sleep and didn’t 
hear anything else. Of course you know there’d been an affair 
between Simon Doyle and that girl Jacqueline de Bellefort in 
the past. Clicrchez la femme* - that’s always a good rule.’ 

‘But, you see, it is quite impossible thatjacqueline de Bellefort 
shot Madame Doyle,’ said Poirot, explaining that the nurse had 
been with her all night. ‘And so, Monsieur, we must still find 
the murderer, and we hope you will be able to help us. You 
knew more about her than her new husband did. You would, 
perhaps, know if she had any enemies.’ 

Pennington passed his tongue over rather dry-looking lips 
and said nervously, ‘I have no idea ... She was brought up in 
England and I know very little of her life there.’ 

‘But there was someone on the boat who wanted to remove 

* Clicrclwz la femme: French for‘Look for the woman.’ 


60 



Madame Doyle. You remember that she had a fortunate escape 
when the rock almost hit her. But, you were not there, perhaps?’ 
asked Poirot. 

‘No, I was inside the temple at the time. I heard about it 
afterwards, of course. Possibly an accident, don’t you think?’ 
Pennington wiped his face with an expensive handkerchief. 

Race went on, ‘Mr Doyle says that someone on the boat had 
a complaint against her family. A former friend of her father’s?’ 

‘I’ve no idea about that,’ said Pennington, looking surprised. 
‘I’m very sorry that I can’t help you.’ 

After Pennington had left, Race lit a cigarette and said, ‘Mr 
Pennington was not at all comfortable.’ 

‘And,’ Poirot added, ‘he was nervous enough to tell a rather 
stupid lie. He was not in the temple of Abu Simbel when the 
rock fell. I can swear to that. I had just come from there. But for 
now we will treat him gently.’ 

‘We understand each other very well, my friend,’ said Race. 
‘I think the next problem to solve is Mrs Doyle’s pearls.’ 

‘You have a plan?’ 

‘Yes. At the end of lunch, I will make an announcement - 
that the pearls have been stolen. I will ask everyone to stay in 
the dining-room while we search the boat. We do not want to 
give the thief an opportunity to get rid of the pearls.’ 

‘Good. We now know a lot about our murder suspects, but 
I ask myself one question: “ Why was the pistol thrown into the 
water?”’ 

‘That’s your only question?’ asked Race. 

‘At the moment, yes. That must be our starting point. Tell me 
about the pistol. You know more about guns than I do. Would 
Miss Van Schuyler’s velvet shawl silence the sound of a shot?’ 

‘No, it wouldn’t,’ said Race. ‘Even without the shawl, that 
pistol would make very little noise.’ 

‘That is what I expected. And this stained handkerchief - 


61 



definitely a man’s and very inexpensive. Perhaps for a man like 
Fleetwood?’ 

‘Or Ferguson?’ suggested Race. 

‘Ah, yes, but quite a jeune fille* colour, is it not?’ said Poirot. 
‘But it is odd ... Cette paiwre * Madame Doyle. Lying there so 
peacefully ... with the little hole in her head. You remember 
how she looked?’ 

Race looked at him curiously. ‘I think you’re trying to tell 
me something - but I have no idea what it is.’ 


Chapter 5 The Truth is Discovered 

Poirot soon received a call to Simon Doyle’s bedside. 

‘Monsieur Poirot, would you mind askingjackie to come here 
to see me? She’s only a child - and I treated her badly, and -’ 
Poirot found the girl in the public lounge. She looked surprised 
by Simon’s request, and followed Poirot like a puzzled child. 

In Dr Bessner’s cabin, she stared at Simon, unable to speak. 
‘Jackie!’ Simon began. ‘I wanted to say - ’ 

‘Simon,’ Jacqueline interrupted, ‘you know I didn’t kill 
Linnet. I - I was mad last night. Can you forgive me? Your leg, 
you might never walk again ... ’ 

‘Jackie, stop worrying and don’t exaggerate. The doctors will 
take care of me when we get to Assuan. I’ll be as good as new.’ 

Jacqueline rushed forward and knelt by Simon’s bed, burying 
her face and crying softly. Simon seemed embarrassed. 

As he left Bessner’s cabin, Poirot heard Jackie whisper, ‘Flow 
could I be such a devil? Oh, Simon! I’m so awfully sorry.’ 

Then, outside on the deck, he heard a line of another 

* jeune fille: French for ‘young girl’ 
f cette paiwre: French for ‘this poor girl’ 


62 



conversation. ‘Ungrateful daughter! After all I’ve done for you!’ 

Poirot knocked at the door of the Otterbournes’ cabin. 
Rosalie appeared, looking very pale, with dark circles under 
her eyes. 

‘May I have the pleasure of a few minutes’ conversation. 
Mademoiselle?’ 

They walked along the deck. 

‘Well?’ she asked crossly. 

‘Mademoiselle, as a friend I am very worried about you. The 
weight of your secrets will harm you.’ 

‘I don’t know what you’re talking about.’ 

‘Mademoiselle, I know that your mother drinks and I am 
guessing that she found a way to hide her bottles of alcohol from 
you, but you discovered them last night. You waited until she 
was asleep and then threw the bottles into the Nile. I am right, 
am I not?’ 

‘Yes!’ Rosalie whispered sadly. ‘I’ve tried so hard to protect 
her. Her books don’t sell any more. People are tired of all that 
cheap sex stuff... It hurt her terribly. And so she began to drink. 
Then she began to dislike me because I tried to stop her.’ 

‘Pauvre petite,’* said Poirot. 

‘Don’t feel sorry for me. It’s easier if you’re not. But I’m so tired, 
and you’re so kind, and I’m afraid I’ve been so rude to you.’ 

‘La politesse? it is not necessary between friends. But I have 
two more questions. At what time did you throw the bottles 
into the river, and did you see Mademoiselle Van Schuyler?’ 

‘I think it was after one o’clock, but I saw nobody.’ 

Monsieur Poirot thought about Rosalie’s answers as he walked 
slowly towards the dining-room for lunch. 

Tim Allerton was already at the table with his mother. ‘Why 

* pauvre petite: French for ‘p° or little one’ 
f la politesse: French for ‘p°hteness’ 


63 



did we come on this awful trip?’ he complained. 

‘I don’t know,’ agreed Mrs Allerton sadly. ‘That beautiful 
girl! Such a waste. And the other one. So terribly unhappy.’ 

‘Jacqueline? Perhaps she will learn not to fire pistols at people. 
Now we’re all involved in a murder case!’ complained Tim. 
‘The police will be waiting to question us at Shellal or Assuan. 
We’re all suspects. And Ferguson told me that Linnet’s pearls are 
missing.’ 

‘Her pearls? I suppose that was the motive for the murder.’ 

‘Why? Mother, you’re mixing up two quite different things.’ 

Poirot joined the Allertons, apologizing for being late. He sat 
down and ordered a bottle of wine. 

‘We have fixed habits,’ Mrs Allerton noted. ‘You always 
drink wine. Tim drinks beer, and I drink water. But we were 
talking about Linnet’s pearls: Ferguson told Tim that they have 
been stolen. Tim worries that it will mean more unpleasantness 
for all of us.’ 

Poirot turned to Tim and said, ‘Ah! You have had previous 
experience, perhaps? You have been in a house where there has 
been a robbery?’ 

‘Never,’ said Tim. 

‘Oh, yes, darling, you were at the Portarlingtons’ when that 
awful woman’s diamonds were stolen,’ reminded his mother. 

‘Mother, you always get things wrong. I was there when they 
discovered that the diamonds she was wearing were false. The 
real ones had probably been stolen months before. Some people 
even thought she had sold them herself.’ 

‘Did Joanna suggest that? She knew them quite well.’ 

‘She wasn’t there that weekend, Mother,’ Tim said quietly. 

Poirot politely changed the subject and talked about sending 
some gifts back to England. ‘Can I depend on the post between 
here and England? Have you had any experience of it?’ 

‘Tim gets books sometimes and has no trouble with them.’ 


64 



‘Ah, no, books are different,’ commented Poirot. 

After coffee had been served, Colonel Race stood up, explained 
that Mrs Doyle’s pearls were missing and asked everyone to stay 
in the dining-room while the boat was searched. 

Race and Poirot waited on the deck. They expected someone 
to come out, but were surprised a few minutes later when Miss 
Bowers came to the door of the dining-room and asked to speak 
to them. They went to the office. 

Very calmly the nurse said, ‘I want to return these.’ 

She took out a string of pearls and laid them on the table. 

‘This is most extraordinary,’ Race said, as he picked up the 
pearls. ‘Will you kindly explain, Miss Bowers?’ 

‘Of course. I hesitated because I had to think of the family, 
but I could not be found with the pearls in my possession.’ 

‘Did you take the pearls from Mrs Doyle’s cabin?’ 

‘Me? Oh, no. Miss Van Schuyler did. She can’t help it, and 
she never admits that she’s taken anything. She usually takes 
jewellery — and pearls are her favourite. It’s my job to watch 
her. She always hides the things she takes in her underwear 
drawer, so I check the drawer every morning and return things 
to their owners. I found these this morning, but when I tried to 
return them to Mrs Doyle’s cabin, there was a guard and it was 
impossible.’ She looked worried. 

‘Thank you for coming to us so quickly,’ said Poirot, ‘but 
please, one more question. Miss Van Schuyler has problems, you 
say? Is it possible for her to commit murder?’ 

Miss Bowers’ answer came immediately: ‘Oh, no! Nothing 
of that kind. The old lady wouldn’t hurt a fly.’ 

Poirot had a final question: ‘Is Miss Van Schuyler at all deaf? 
Do you think, for example, that she could hear someone moving 
about in the cabin next to hers — in Mrs Doyle’s cabin?’ 

‘As a matter of fact, she is quite deaf, Monsieur Poirot. I don’t 
think she could hear anything at all.’ 


65 



When Miss Bowers had returned to the dining-room, Race 
said, ‘Miss Van Schuyler must be a suspect now. Did she murder 
Mrs Doyle to get the pearls? I doubt it, but 

‘I think she did see Rosalie Otterbourne, but I don’t think 
she heard anything in Linnet Doyle’s cabin. I think she was just 
watching for her chance to go in and take the pearls.’ 

‘But if Mrs Doyle was shot at about ten minutes past one, 
when the boat was very quiet, I am amazed that no one heard 
the shot. Of course her husband’s cabin was empty and Miss Van 
Schuyler is deaf. That leaves only the cabin next to her on the 
other side of the boat. In other words - Pennington.’ 

‘I am promising myself the pleasure of asking him a few more 
questions,’ said Poirot. ‘But first, the pearls.’ 

Poirot examined the pearls carefully. He held them up to 
the light; he even bit one of them. Then he threw them on 
the table. 

‘Another complication, my friend,’ he said. ‘These pearls are 
not real. They are only a clever copy.’ 

‘Are you positive?’ asked Race, picking them up. 

‘Yes, I am certain. I was admiring Madame Doyle’s pearls the 
first evening on the boat — they were beautiful and very real.’ 

‘Could Miss Bowers and Miss Van Schuyler be clever jewel 
thieves pretending to be part of a rich American family?’ 

‘It is difficult to say, but it would take careful planning and 
skill to copy Madame Doyle’s pearls. It could not be done in a 
hurry. The person who made the copy had a good opportunity 
of studying the original.’ 

‘So now we’ve got to find the real pearls.’ 

Poirot and Race searched the cabins carefully, even their 
own. Most cabins contained what they had expected, but there 
were a few surprises. Mr Ferguson’s outer clothing was torn 
and dirty, but his underwear and handkerchiefs were of very 
good quality. Tim Allerton’s cabin contained several pieces of 


66 



religious art, including a big wooden rosary. 

The two men searched both Simon’s and Linnet’s cabins very 
carefully — for clues to the theft, but also to the murder. In 
Linnet’s room, Poirot noticed two little bottles of fingernail 
polish - one, labelled ‘Rose’, had only a drop or two of dark red 
liquid at the bottom; the other, labelled ‘Cardinal’, was nearly 
full. Poirot opened both bottles and the smell of pear drops 
filled the room. 

“There is something a little curious here,’ said Poirot. ‘I must 
ask the maid.’ 

‘I wonder where she is,' said Race. 

In Dr Bessner’s cabin, they found Simon Doyle looking 
feverish and much worse than earlier. He was surprised that 
they wanted to search Bessner’s cabin, but Poirot explained, 
“Anyone could come into this room and hide something when 
you are asleep.’ 

The next cabin was Pennington’s, where they found a case 
full of legal and business documents. 

“These seem to be all right,’ commented Poirot. 

‘Yes,’ agreed Race, ‘but perhaps he destroyed any papers that 
connected him to murder or theft.’ 

Poirot lifted a heavy pistol from a drawer, looked at it and put 
it back. ‘It seems that many people still travel with guns.’ 

“But Linnet Doyle wasn’t shot with something that size.’ 
Race paused and then added, ‘I have an idea about the murder 
weapon. Perhaps the murderer left it in Linnet’s cabin, and then 
someone else took it away and threw it into the river.’ 

‘Yes, but who was that second person? The only other person 
who we know went into the cabin was Mademoiselle Van 
Schuyler. Would she remove the pistol? For what reason? To 
protect Jacqueline de Bellefort? It does not seem likely.’ 

‘Perhaps she was worried when she saw her shawl, and threw 
it and its contents into the river,’ suggested Race. 


67 



‘It is not a satisfactory solution,’ said Poirot as they left Linnet’s 
cabin. ‘I must have a few more words with Simon Doyle.’ 

‘Monsieur Poirot, I’m glad you have returned,’ Simon said. 
‘I‘m perfectly sure that Linnet’s pearls were all right yesterday. 
She loved them. She would recognise a copy.’ 

‘That is probably true, but the copy was very good. Tell me, 
did Madame Doyle ever lend the pearls to a friend?’ 

‘I hadn’t known Linnet very long, but she was generous with 
her things. Perhaps she let friends wear them sometimes.’ 

‘She never, for example, lent them to Jacqueline de 
Bellefort?’ 

Simon turned red and tried to sit up but fell back on the bed. 

‘Jackie is not a thief- I swear she isn’t.’ 

‘I see my suggestion has excited your anger.’ 

Poirot remembered a girl’s voice by the Nile in Assuan saying, 
‘I love Simon — and he loves me ... ’ Perhaps her words were 
closer to the truth than anything else that Poirot had heard that 
night. 

Race came to the door and reported that the passengers 
in the dining-room had been searched. Nothing unusual had 
been found. 

‘The Italian gentleman complained about the search. 
Something about his honour. And he’s also carrying a gun. A 
big automatic.’ 

‘Richetti has a hot temper,’ said Simon. ‘He was upset and 
rude to Linnet at Wadi Haifa because of a mistake over a 
telegram.’ 

‘And M iss Rosalie Otterbourne had a little pistol in her handbag 
- a very small one with a pearl handle,’ Race reported. 

‘So many guns on this boat! And Louise Bourget?’ 

‘She’s disappeared,’ said Race. ‘And she’s one person who had 
time to copy the pearls. Let’s have a look at her cabin.’ 

Poirot and Race went to the deck below and found Louise 


68 



Bourget’s cabin in quite a mess. They looked through everything 
carefully, and then Race’s attention was attracted by a shoe 
that he could see half under the bed. He whistled softly. 

‘ Qu'est-ce qu’il y aV* asked Poirot. 

‘Miss Bourget hasn’t disappeared. She’s here, under the bed. 
A knife wound to the heart. Death was immediate, probably 
about an hour ago, but let’s find Bessner.’ 

Poirot bent down and picked up the right hand. He removed 
the corner of a hundred-pound note and showed it to Race. 

‘Blackmail,’ said Race. ‘She knew who the murderer was.’ 

‘We have been fools!’ cried Poirot. ‘She did hear something 
in the night, came up, and saw the murderer leaving Madame 
Doyle’s cabin. She saw her chance to make a lot of money.’ 

‘But what happened here?’ 

‘The murderer gave her the money and watched her as she 
counted it. Then he struck, took the money and escaped — not 
noticing that one of the notes was torn.’ 

‘We may get him that way,’ suggested Race doubtfully. 

‘No,’ said Poirot. ‘I think this murderer has courage and 
intelligence. He will notice the note and throw it away.’ 

After examining the body, Dr Bessner showed Poirot and 
Race one of his own medical knives. 

‘This is the type of knife that killed Mademoiselle Bourget. 
It is long and thin and very sharp.’ 

‘And none of your knives are missing, Doctor?’ asked Race. 

‘Of course not! Do you believe that I, with my important 
patients and my fame, would murder a worthless maid?’ 

Race and Poirot left quietly and Monsieur Poirot turned to the 
left. He heard laughter coming from Rosalie Otterbourne’s cabin 
and saw her and Jacqueline de Bellefort chatting together. 

‘You are talking about scandal, Mesdemoiselles?’ 

* Qu’est-ce qu’il y a?: French for 'What is it?’ 


69 



‘No, of course not,’ said Rosalie. ‘We were comparing 
lipsticks.’ 

But Jacqueline had noticed Poirot’s serious expression and 
asked, ‘Has something happened - what has happened now?’ 

‘You are correct. There has been another death.’ 

Watching them carefully, Poirot saw alarm and fear in 
Rosalie’s eyes. Then, as the detective had expected, the girl 
reacted nervously when he described the murder. He led her 
out to the deck. 

‘Why do you not tell me all the truth, Mademoiselle?’ 

‘What do you mean? I told you everything this morning.’ 

‘You did not tell me that you carry a little pistol in your 
handbag, and you did not tell me all that you saw last night.’ 

‘I haven’t got a pistol. Here, look in my handbag.’ 

Poirot opened Rosalie’s bag. ‘No, it is not there.’ 

‘You were wrong, and you’re wrong about the other thing.’ 

‘No, I do not think so. I think you saw a man come out of 
Linnet Doyle’s cabin last night. You watched him walk along 
the deck and enter one of the two end cabins. Am I right, 
Mademoiselle?’ 

Rosalie hesitated. Then her lips opened: ‘I saw nobody.’ 

Jacqueline saw Miss Bowers come out of Dr Bessner’s cabin 
and rushed over to speak to her. 

‘How is Simon?’ she demanded. ‘Is he going to die?’ 

‘He should be in hospital,’ said the nurse. ‘He’s had too much 
excitement today and his temperature has risen again.’ 

Poirot saw Jacqueline’s face and guided her into her cabin. 
She sat on her bed, with tears running down her cheeks. 

‘He’ll die! And I killed him! And I love him so!’ 

‘Too much ... ’ whispered Poirot to himself, remembering his 
thoughts in Monsieur Blondin’s restaurant many months ago. 

The girl’s eyes brightened. ‘Simon will go to hospital and 
they’ll give him the proper treatment and everything will be 


70 



all right.’ 

‘You speak like a child. “And they lived happily ever after?’” 

‘No, Monsieur, nothing like that. Simon is just sorry for 
me now because he knows how sorry I am that I hurt him 
so badly.’ 

‘Pity is a generous reaction,’ Poirot said sympathetically. 

Colonel Race met Poirot on the deck. 

‘Poirot! I’ve got an idea. There’s something about the Italian’s 
telegram -’ 

‘Yes, the telegram is important,’ Poirot said thoughtfully. 

‘You have an idea too?’ 

‘It is more than an idea. I am sure. It is clear - so clear. But 
there are difficulties - But first, let us examine the matter of the 
telegram. We must talk to Monsieur Doyle one more time.’ 

Dr Bessner was not happy to see Race and Poirot again, but 
he left and Simon asked, ‘What is it?’ 

Race said, ‘Tell us again about Signor Richetti and the 
telegram.’ 

‘When we came back from the Second Cataract, Linnet saw 
a telegram on the board. The writing was not clear and she 
thought it was for “Ridgeway”, so she opened it. Signor Richetti 
saw her and pulled it out of her hand very rudely.’ 

‘And do you know what was in the telegram?’ 

‘Yes, Linnet read some of it aloud. It said — ’ 

Simon paused. There was a lot of noise outside the cabin. 

‘Where are Monsieur Poirot and Colonel Race?’ a woman 
shouted. ‘I must speak to them immediately. I have important 
information.’ 

Bessner had not closed the door. Mrs Otterbourne pushed 
the curtain to one side and entered the room like a tropical 
storm. She was shaky on her legs, her face was red and she could 
not completely control her words. But in a clear theatrical voice 
she announced, ‘Mr Doyle, I know who killed your wife!’ The 


71 



three men stared at her. ‘I saw the person who killed Louise 
Bourget, so I know who also killed Mrs Doyle.’ 

Simon, feverish, shouted loudly, ‘Please, Mrs Otterbourne, 
start at the beginning. You know who killed Louise Bourget?’ 

Mrs Otterbourne looked proudly at her audience, enjoying 
the idea that she would be famous for solving the mystery. 

‘I was on my way to the dining-room when I remembered 
that I had arranged to - er — meet someone. I left my daughter 
and went along the lower deck.’ 

The curtain across the door moved again, but no one noticed. 
Then a grey metal object appeared between the curtain and 
the door. 

‘The girl - Louise Bourget — looked out of her cabin, but 
seemed disappointed to see me and closed her door again. I 
continued to my meeting, bought - er —what I had ordered and 
turned round. As I walked along the deck, I saw someone knock 
on Miss Bourget’s door and go inside.’ 

Race said: ‘And that person was — ?’ 

Bang! 

Mrs Otterbourne fell to the floor with a crash. From just 
behind her ear, the blood poured from a neat round hole. 

Poirot made a catlike jump for the door and saw a big, heavy 
gun on the floor. Racing towards the front of the boat, he met 
Tim Allerton, who was hurrying round the corner. 

‘What was that?’ cried Tim breathlessly. 

‘Did you meet anyone on your way here?’ asked Poirot. 

‘Meet anyone? No.’ 

They found a crowd gathered at the door of Bessner’s cabin: 
Rosalie, Jacqueline, Cornelia, Ferguson, Fanthorp and Mrs 
Allerton. 

‘I think we’ve seen this gun recently,’ said Race. 

He knocked on the door of Pennington’s cabin, but there was 
no answer. Race went in and checked the top drawer. The gun 


79 



was gone. 

He and Poirot found Pennington on the deck below. He was 
in a small sitting-room writing letters. He lifted his face. 

‘Anything new?’ he asked. 

‘Didn’t you hear a shot?’ 

‘Well - now you mention it — I believe I heard a kind of bang. 
But I didn’t imagine - who’s been shot?’ 

‘Mrs Otterbourne — with your gun.’ 

‘Gentlemen, I’ve been here for the last twenty minutes. 
Anyway, how could I go to the deck above, shoot this poor 
woman and come down here again with no one seeing me?’ 

‘How do you explain the fact that your gun was used?’ 

‘Well, I’m afraid that one evening in the public lounge, I 
mentioned that I always carry a gun with me when I travel. But 
why would anyone want to shoot Mrs Otterbourne?’ 

‘She said that she had seen someone go into Louise Bourget’s 
cabin. Before she could name the person, she was shot dead.’ 

Pennington wiped his face with a very fine handkerchief. 

Poirot said, ‘I need to discuss a few more points with you, sir. 
Will you come to my cabin in half an hour’s time?’ 

‘I would be delighted.’ 

He stood up and left the room. 

‘He didn’t look very delighted,’ Race said. 

Poirot went on deck and found a group of passengers 
discussing recent events. 

‘Monsieur Poirot,’ began Cornelia, ‘how did the person who 
shot Mrs Otterbourne get away without us seeing him?’ 

‘Ah,’ said Poirot. ‘We know he didn’t go to the left or to the 
right, but there was one more possibility.’ 

Everyone looked confused, and then Jacqueline said, ‘Of 
course — he couldn’t go up , but he could go down’ 

Poirot smiled. ‘You have brains, Mademoiselle. The murderer 
could avoid the inside passage by jumping to the deck below.’ 


73 



‘Amazing! I suppose he’d have to be wonderfully quick,’ said 
Cornelia. ‘Three deaths ... It’s like living in a bad dream.’ 

Ferguson heard her and spoke to her angrily: ‘It’s the future that 
matters, not the past. Those three women were not important 
— Linnet Doyle and her money! A French maid, looking after 
her needs! A novelist with tired old ideas! I think it’s a good 
thing that they’re dead!’ 

‘You’re wrong!’ Cornelia shouted at him. ‘Those three women 
were loved by someone. And Linnet Doyle — when anything so 
beautiful is dead, it’s a loss to the whole world.’ 

‘You’re unbelievable,’ Ferguson said. He turned to Poirot. 
‘Do you know, sir, that Cornelia’s father was almost ruined 
by Melhuish Ridgeway? But does she hate his daughter when 
she meets her? No, she admires her beauty! She forgives 
everything.’ 

‘1 didn’t forgive her immediately,’ said Cornelia softly. ‘Daddy 
was very unhappy when he died. But didn’t you just say that we 
should be concerned with the future, not the past? All that was 
in the past, wasn’t it?’ 

‘You have understood me,’ said Ferguson. ‘Cornelia Robson, 
you’re the nicest woman I’ve ever met. Will you marry me?’ 

‘You’re crazy.’ 

‘I am perfectly serious, and Monsieur Poirot is my witness. For 
you, I will even accept the conditions of a marriage contract.’ 

‘Never. You laugh at all sorts of serious things: education, art, 
culture - and death. I could never trust you,’ Cornelia said, red¬ 
faced, rushing off to her cabin. 

‘I think she really means it,’ said Ferguson. Then he looked at 
Poirot. ‘What’s the matter? You seem deep in thought.’ 

‘Monsieur Ferguson, you are a very rude young man.’ 

‘Yes. But what do you think of that girl? She’s got spirit, 
hasn’t she? Perhaps I can get to her through her old cousin.’ 

He left to find Miss Van Schuyler. 


74 



Poirot followed. He sat in the public lounge at a distance 
from Ferguson and Miss Van Schuyler, but he could hear their 
conversation clearly. 

‘Miss Van Schuyler, I want to marry your cousin.’ 

‘This suggestion is beyond consideration, young man,’ the 
old lady said. ‘You are obviously not good enough for her. You 
have no social position. Now go away!’ 

‘I’ve got two arms, two legs, good health and a reasonable 
brain. That’s more important than a social position.’ 

Ferguson smiled and walked calmly out of the lounge. 

Poirot spoke to the old woman: ‘He’s a bit strange - most of 
the family are. You recognised him, I suppose? Calls himself 
Ferguson and won’t use his title because of his political ideas.’ 

‘His title?' asked Miss Van Schuyler sharply. 

‘Yes, that’s young Lord Dawlish. Very wealthy, graduated 
from Oxford University. Rather extreme ideas now, though.' 

Poirot could almost see the thoughts going through Miss Van 
Schuyler’s brain before she left the lounge. 

Poirot’s own thoughts became serious again. 

‘Mats oui ,’ he said at last. ‘It all fits.’ 

Colonel Race found him sitting alone. 

‘My dear friend,’ Poirot said, ‘please bring young Fanthorp 
here.’ 


When Fanthorp was sitting in front of him, Poirot began 
his questions. ‘Monsieur, I have an impression of you because I 
understand a little about English gentlemen. I know that there 
are “things which are done” and “things which are not done”.’ 

Jim Fanthorp smiled. 

‘I believe that one “thing which is not done” is to listen to 
other people’s private conversations, but the other day I observed 
as you listened to a conversation between the Doyles and Mr 
Pennington. You interrupted them and gave Madame Doyle 
some advice about signing legal documents - that is not what a 


75 



gentleman would do. Also, you work for a small law firm near 
Wode Hall, and I doubt that you can afford this trip. So — what 
is the reason for your presence on this boat? Remember that 
there have been three murders.’ 

Fanthorp seemed unable to speak. 

‘If I add that the weapon used to kill Madame Otterbourne 
was a gun owned by Andrew Pennington, will you understand 
that it is your duty to tell us all you can?’ 

Fanthorp thought for a moment, and then spoke. ‘My 
uncle, Mrs Doyle’s English lawyer, suspected that Mrs Doyle’s 
American trustee, Mr Pennington, had been using her money 
for his own profit.’ 

‘In plain language,’ said Race, ‘your uncle suspected that 
Pennington had stolen it?’ 

‘Yes. In a letter, Mrs Doyle told us that she had met Pennington 
by accident while on her honeymoon. I was sent to watch them 
because neither Mrs Doyle nor Mr Pennington knew me. On 
the occasion you mentioned, I had to behave badly, but I was 
satisfied with the result.’ 

‘Another question,’ said Poirot. ‘Who would it be easier to 
cheat - Madame Doyle or her husband?’ 

‘Mr Doyle,’ said Fanthorp with a smile. ‘He would trust his 
advisers and sign anything they gave him.’ 

‘I agree,’ said Poirot. He looked at Race. ‘There’s a motive, 
and I think we may get the proof from Pennington himself. 
Thank you for your help, Mr Fanthorp.’ 

Two minutes later, Andrew Pennington appeared. 

‘Mr Pennington, we know that you had known Linnet since 
she was a small child and that you and her father were close 
friends. So close, in fact, that on his death you were appointed 
as trustee to the enormous fortune he left her?’ 

‘Yes,’ Pennington answered cautiously. ‘My partner and I.’ 

‘Linnet would take control of her fortune — worth millions 


76 



- on her twenty-first birthday or when she married.’ 

Pennington said angrily, ‘This is none of your business, and 
I don’t understand the relationship between this and Linnet’s 
murder.’ 

Poirot leaned forward, his eyes green and catlike. ‘In 
considering motives, financial matters are always important. I was 
wondering if Mademoiselle Ridgeway’s marriage caused alarm 
in your office? Perhaps her financial affairs were not in perfect 
order and you hurried to Cairo to meet her “accidentally”?’ 

‘That’s crazy! I didn’t even know that Linnet was married 
until I met her in Cairo. I was totally surprised. Her letter 
reached New York after I had departed on the Carmanic .’ 

‘It is strange,’ said Poirot, ‘that the only recent labels on your 
luggage of a voyage across the Atlantic are from the Normandie , 
which, I remember, sailed two days after the Carmanic .’ 

‘We’ve good reason for believing that you received Mrs 
Doyle’s letter before you left New York,’ said Race. 

Pennington sat down. ‘You’re too clever for me, gentlemen. 
But I had my reasons for lying to you. I think Linnet’s English 
lawyers were stealing money from her. I came over to check.’ 

‘But why did you lie about the letter from Mrs Doyle?’ 

‘Well, I didn’t want to turn their honeymoon into a business 
trip, so I made the meeting accidental. And I didn’t know 
anything about this Doyle - perhaps he was part of the theft.’ 

Poirot leaned forwards. ‘Monsieur, we believe that Linnet 
Ridgeway’s unexpected marriage put you in a difficult 
financial position. You hurried to Cairo to get her signature 
on some important documents, but you failed. Then at Abu 
Simbel, you pushed a large rock down towards her, but you 
missed your object. 

‘Then you had another unexpected opportunity on the return 
journey. If Madame Doyle were murdered, everyone would 
suspect Mademoiselle de Bellefort. And we know that your gun 


77 



killed Mrs Otterbourne, who was prepared to tell us the name 
of the person she believed had killed both women —’ 

‘Are you crazy? I wouldn’t gain anything from Linnet’s death. 
Her money goes to her husband. He’s the one with a motive.’ 

Race said coldly, ‘Doyle was shot that night. He couldn’t 
even stand up without help. He couldn’t leave the lounge 
and kill someone. As you say, Doyle would receive his wife’s 
fortune, but he knows nothing about her financial affairs. He 
would trust her old advisors. I think you would gain from such 
circumstances. Are you ready to tell us the truth?’ 

Pennington’s hands were shaking, but before he left the room 
he said, ‘You don’t understand. The stock market went mad, but 
with a little luck everything will be OK by the end ofjune. I am 
innocent, gentlemen. I did not push that rock at Abu Simbel on 
purpose - it was an accident - and I did not shoot Linnet.’ 

Alone again, Race said to Poirot, ‘We got more from 
Pennington than I expected. We can connect him to the rock 
and to a motive for Mrs Doyle’s murder, but there’s no proof.’ 

‘No proof yet,’ said Poirot rather mysteriously. ‘But there is 
my conversation with Mademoiselle de Bellefort in the garden 
at Assuan. Tim Allerton’s and Louise Bourget’s answers to our 
questions. Two bottles of nail polish. My bottle of wine. The 
shawl. The handkerchief with the pink stain. The deaths of 
Louise and Mrs Otterbourne. The gun left at the scene of the 
last murder. One thing is clear: Pennington didn’t do it!’ 

‘What?’ 

‘Pennington is clever and he had the motive. He even tried 
to murder her. But he is not bold enough. This crime was 
dangerous and needed courage and speed. And imagination.’ 

Race looked at him with the respect one able man gives to 
another. ‘So you’ve solved it?’ 

‘I think so, but there are one or two things that I must find 
out. We’ll need to speak to Tim Allerton again.’ 


78 



Tim Allerton came quickly when he was sent for. 

‘At our first meeting, Mr Allerton,’ Poirot said seriously, ‘you 
mentioned Mademoiselle Joanna Southwood. After studying 
several cases, a friend of mine, a detective at Scotland Yard, has 
recently connected her with certain jewellery thefts. 

‘Mademoiselle Southwood visits her wealthy friends, borrows 
a piece of jewellery, has it copied and returns the original. After 
some time, when she is far away, her partner visits the same 
person, exchanges the copy for the real piece and leaves with the 
other jewellery. No one notices for some time and so the two 
thieves are unlikely to be connected to the crime. 

‘I believe you are Joanna Southwood’s partner. The missing 
ring in Majorca. A house party when another piece of jewellery 
disappeared. Your dislike of your mother’s friendship with me. 
And then the copy of Madame Doyle’s pearls is returned to us. 
We had to wonder where the real pearls were, didn’t we?’ 

Tim Allerton went very pale. ‘You have no proof that I’m 
a thief.’ 

Poirot answered slowly, ‘I have a good idea that the pearls 
are hidden in your rosary. I am guessing that Mademoiselle 
Southwood had them copied some time ago. She knew about the 
Doyles’ honeymoon and sent the copy to you inside a book.’ 

There was long pause. Then Tim said quietly, ‘You win! It’s 
been a good game, but I know it’s finished now.’ 

‘Do you realise that you were seen last night when you went 
into Madame Doyle’s cabin to steal the pearls?’ 

‘Listen — I’m a thief, not a murderer! Who saw me?’ 

‘Rosalie Otterbourne saw you leave Linnet Doyle’s cabin just 
after one in the morning.’ 

‘So it was she who told you,’ Tim said rather sadly. 

Poirot said gently, ‘Excuse me; she did not tell me. I am 
Hercule Poirot. I do not need to be told. Rosalie Otterbourne 
lied. She said, “I saw nobody.” She wanted to protect you.’ 


79 



Tim said, a different note in his voice, ‘She’s an extraordinary 
girl. She’s been through some difficult times with her mother. 
But now you know about the pearls, what are you going to do?’ 

Poirot asked Race to bring Rosalie Otterbourne to their 
meeting. 

When she arrived, looking anxious, Poirot said, ‘I know that 
Monsieur Allerton is not the murderer, and if you continue to 
say you saw nobody last night, there is no case against him.’ 

Poirot turned to Tim Allerton. ‘Monsieur Allerton, the copy 
of Madame Doyle’s pearls is in a little box on the table by the 
door. Perhaps you would like to examine them?’ 

Tim got up. He understood what Poirot was saying. 

‘Thanks!’ he said. ‘You won’t have to give me another 
chance!’ 

He picked up the little box as he and Rosalie left the room. 
When he was outside he opened it, took out the false pearls and 
threw them into the Nile. 

‘There!’ he said. ‘They’re gone. When I return the box to Poirot, 
the real string of pearls will be inside. I’ve been a terrible fool!’ 

‘But why did you do it?’ 

‘How did I start?’ Tim said. ‘I was bored and lazy, and I 
enjoyed the risk, I suppose. You’d never steal, would you?’ 

‘No, I don’t think so, but I think I understand.’ 

‘You’re so lovely ... Why didn’t you say you’d seen me last 
night?’ 

‘I thought they might suspect you, and I knew you weren’t a 
murderer.’ She put out a shy hand and touched his arm. 

‘Rosalie, would you — you know what I mean? Or will you 
always hate me for being a thief?’ 

She smiled. ‘I’ve done things I’m ashamed of too. But this 
Joanna — is she special to you?’ 

‘I don’t care about Joanna! She’s a most unattractive woman.’ 

Back in the public lounge, Race was becoming impatient with 


80 



his friend. ‘Do you know who committed the three murders on 
this boat or don’t you? We know it wasn’t Pennington or young 
Allerton or, I suppose, Fleetwood. Please tell me who it was.’ 

But at that moment Cornelia and Dr Bessner came in. The 
girl had just heard about her cousin’s habit of stealing things, 
and wanted to be sure that it would remain a secret. 

‘It would destroy the family if people knew,’ she said. 
‘Dr Bessner says that there’s a wonderful treatment for this 
condition.’ 

‘Don’t worry,’ said Race with a humourless smile. ‘We’re 
very good at keeping secrets.’ 

‘Dr Bessner,’ said Poirot, ‘how is your patient?’ 

‘He is doing well. But, still, this Miss de Bellefort worries 
about him all day. Why? One minute she shoots him, the 
next she is worried whether he will live or die.’ He turned to 
Cornelia. ‘If you loved a man, you would not shoot him. No, 
you are sensible.’ 

Race interrupted this interesting and affectionate scene. 
‘Since Doyle is all right, can I interview him again? He was 
telling us about a telegram.’ 

‘Ho, ho, ho, that was very funny! Doyle told me it was a 
telegram all about vegetables - potatoes, beans, onions ... ’ 

‘My God,’ Race said. ‘It’s Richetti! Those words were used 
in the South African war. Potatoes mean machine guns, beans 
mean bombs ... Richetti is a very dangerous man. He’s killed 
more than once and he’ll kill again. Is he our man?’ 

‘Richetti is your man,’ Poirot said, ‘but he did not kill Linnet 
Doyle. I have half of the proof I need to point to her murderer, 
but I must wait for the other half.’ 

‘But aren't you going to tell us?’ cried Cornelia. 

‘Mais oui ,’ he said, ‘I like an audience. I like to say, “See how 
clever Hercule Poirot is!”’ 

‘Well,’ said Race gently, ‘how clever is Hercule Poirot?’ 


81 



‘At first I was very stupid. I could not understand why 
Jacqueline de Bellefort’s pistol had been taken away from the 
scene of the crime. Finally, I understood. The murderer took 
it away because he had to take it away — because he had not 
finished with it.’ 

Poirot leaned towards Race. ‘You and I, my friend, decided 
that Linnet Doyle’s murderer had seen a chance and had acted 
without much planning, knowing that everyone would blame 
Jacqueline de Bellefort for the murder after what had happened 
between her and Simon Doyle. 

‘But if that idea is wrong, the whole case changes. Every 
detail of the crime - even putting a strong sleeping drug in my 
wine — was very carefully planned and accurately timed long 
before the Karnak began its journey up the Nile. 

‘My first clue was when the pistol, wrapped in Miss Van 
Schuyler’s shawl, was pulled from the Nile. If the murderer 
wanted to point the finger at Mademoiselle de Bellefort, he had 
to leave the pistol in Madame Doyle’s cabin.’ 

Poirot turned towards Dr Bessner. ‘You, Dr Bessner, told us 
that the skin around the bullet hole on Linnet Doyle’s head was 
burned and black. But this would not have happened if the pistol 
had been wrapped in a shawl. 

‘But a bullet from the pistol had been fired through the shawl. 
Jacqueline certainly did not use the shawl when she fired the pistol 
at Simon. It appeared, therefore, that a third shot had been fired 
- one we knew nothing about. That was difficult to explain. 

‘Then in Linnet Doyle’s cabin I found two nail polish bottles, 
but when I smelled the contents, I found that one contained 
nail polish and the other contained red ink. It suggested a 
connection with the handkerchief with the pink stain, which 
had been wrapped round the pistol. Red ink washes out quickly 
but always leaves a pale pink stain. 

‘And the picture became even clearer when Louise Bourget 


82 



was murdered. This morning I asked her if she had seen 
anything the previous night. Her answer was unusually long 
and complicated. What did that tell us?’ 

‘That she had climbed the stairs,’ suggested Race. 

‘No, it told me that she was sending a message to someone in 
the room. I knew that the message was not for me or you, Race, 
so it had to be for Dr Bessner or for Simon Doyle. Mademoiselle 
Bourget could easily speak to you, Dr Bessner, in private, but 
this was the only time she could speak to Monsieur Doyle. She 
wanted him to understand her message and to tell her not to 
worry — and he did.’ 

‘But Mr Doyle wasn’t in Mrs Doyle’s cabin. It was impossible 
for him to leave the lounge with the wound to his leg,' said 
Dr Bessner. 

‘Impossible, I know, but he did. It was the only logical meaning 
to Louise Bourget’s words. Then I remembered that there had 
been five minutes when Simon was alone in the lounge before 
Dr Bessner arrived. During that time, what do we know about 
Simon Doyle’s injury? 

‘Two people see Mademoiselle de Bellefort fire her pistol. 
They also see Simon Doyle fall across a chair and put a 
handkerchief against his leg. The handkerchief turns red. Then 
Mr Doyle insists that Mademoiselle Robson takes Mademoiselle 
de Bellefort to her cabin, and he asks Fanthorp to Find Dr 
Bessner. When he is alone, Simon acts quickly. He picks up the 
pistol from under the sofa, takes off his shoes, runs to his wife’s 
cabin, shoots her in the head, leaves the bottle with red ink 
beside her bottle of nail polish, runs back to the lounge, picks 
up Mademoiselle Van Schuyler’s shawl, which he has hidden in 
his chair, wraps it around the pistol and shoots himself in the 
leg. He falls into the chair near a window and throws the pistol 
— wrapped in the handkerchief and the shawl — into the Nile.’ 

‘Impossible!’ said Race. 


S3 



‘Not impossible. Remember that Tim Allerton heard a pop 
— followed by a splash. And he heard the sound of a man running 
past his door. It was Simon Doyle running past his cabin.’ 

Race objected, ‘It’s impossible. Doyle couldn’t think that 
quickly. He hasn’t got the brains for it.’ 

‘But he has the body for quick actions - someone else did 
the thinking for him. It was a very cleverly planned piece of 
work. It could not be by chance that Simon Doyle had a bottle 
of red ink in his pocket. It was not chance that Jacqueline de 
Bellefort’s foot kicked the pistol under the sofa, where it would 
be forgotten until later.’ 

‘Jacqueline?’ 

‘Certainly. The two halves of the murder. The shot fired 
by Jacqueline gave Simon his alibi. Simon’s insistence that she 
should not be left alone gave Jacqueline hers. Her brains — his 
speed and timing. 

‘If you realise that they are still lovers, it is all clear. Simon 
goes away with his rich wife, kills her, gets her money and after 
a certain amount of time, marries his true love. 

‘Everything was part of their plan. Jacqueline following 
the new couple. Simon’s pretended anger. And he was too 
affectionate towards his wife in public - not like an ordinary 
Englishman. And when Jacqueline told me that someone was 
in the shadows, listening to our conversation, there was no one! 
Then one night on this boat, I heard Simon’s voice outside my 
cabin. He was saying, “We’ve got to go on with it now.” It was 
Doyle, but he was speaking to Jacqueline, not to Linnet. 

‘The final scene was perfectly planned and timed. There was 
a sleeping drug in my wine. There were honest witnesses to 
see Jacqueline shoot Simon. Then, when the doctor arrived, he 
really had been shot. 

‘But then the plan goes wrong. Louise Bourget has been 
unable to sleep. She comes up the stairs and sees Simon Doyle 


84 



enter his wife’s cabin and come out again. She understands what 
has happened when she sees the dead Madame Doyle the next 
morning. She asks for money. She knows everything, so she 
cannot live.’ 

‘But it would be impossible for Simon Doyle to kill her ,’ 
Cornelia objected. 

‘Yes, but Simon asked to see Jacqueline and wanted to speak 
to her alone. He told her about this new danger, so Jacqueline 
killed Louise Bourget with one of Dr Bessner’s knives before 
lunch and returned the knife before Dr Bessner noticed. 

‘Then, when Madame Otterbourne tried to tell us that she 
had seen Jacqueline on the lower deck, Simon shouted at her 
- he was warning Jacqueline. She remembered Pennington’s 
talk about a pistol, ran to his room, found the gun and shot 
Madame Otterbourne. She was very quick and her cabin was 
only two doors from Dr Bessner’s, so she did not go to the left 
or the right, or up or down. She simply dropped the gun and 
ran into her own cabin, appearing when everyone rushed out to 
see what had happened.’ 

There was a silence and then Race asked, ‘What happened to 
the first bullet fired at Doyle by the girl?’ 

‘I think it went into the table and Doyle removed it when he 
was alone and threw it out of the window. He had, of course, 
an extra bullet, so that it would appear that only two shots had 
been fired.’ 

Cornelia said, ‘They thought of everything. It’s - horrible!’ 

Poirot was silent. His eyes seemed to be saying, ‘You are 
wrong. They did not take into consideration Hercule Poirot.’ 

♦ 

Much later that evening, Hercule Poirot knocked on the door 
of Jacqueline de Bellefort’s cabin. He asked the guard to wait 
outside. 


85 



‘Well,’Jacqueline said, ‘you were too clever for us. You took 
Simon by surprise, and he told you everything.’ She paused. ‘I’m 
not a safe person now — killing people is so terribly easy. You 
begin to feel that it’s only you that matters. You told me not to 
open my heart to evil. That was the moment to stop. It was still 
possible — Simon and I loved each other.’ 

‘And for you love was enough, but not for him.’ 

‘Yes, Simon wanted money so desperately — for horses, boats, 
sport. He’s like a child - he wants things so much. But he didn’t 
try to get money by marrying a rich wife. We met and we wanted 
a future together. He tried to be a successful businessman, but he 
failed. Then I thought I could get him a job at my dear friend’s 
new house, but Linnet ignored our friendship and tried to steal 
Simon from me. That’s why I’m not sorry about her, even now. 
Simon didn’t even like her! He thought she was good-looking, 
but terribly bossy. One day he said, “If I had any luck, I’d marry 
her and she’d die in about a year and leave me the money.” Then 
I found him reading about poisons. He had decided to kill her, 
but I knew he couldn’t make it work, so I had to help him. We 
planned the details, giving each other an alibi, and it worked.’ 

‘Yes,’ said Poirot, ‘but Louise Bourget couldn’t sleep that 
night.’ 

‘I can’t believe that I did that, but Simon and I were safe except 
for that blackmailing girl. I gave her all the money we could 
find, and while she counted it, I did it! It was horribly, horribly 
easy . . . But even then we weren’t safe. Mrs Otterbourne had 
seen me. But that time I had to act extremely quickly. It was 
almost exciting.’ She stopped talking for a moment. ‘Don’t 
worry about me, Monsieur Poirot. If we had won, I’d have been 
very happy and enjoyed things without regrets.’ 

Poirot got up. Jacqueline rose too. She said with a sudden 
smile, ‘Do you remember when I said I must follow my star? 
You warned me that it might be a false star.' 


86 



He went out to the deck with her laughter ringing in his 


ears. 


♦ 

It was early dawn when they came into Shellal. 

Poirot whispered to himself, ‘Quel pays sauvage! 

Race stood beside him. ‘Richetti will be taken to shore first. 
Then the medical people will come for Doyle. He deserves to 

be hanged, but I feel a bit sorry for the girl.’ 

Poirot shook his head. ‘People say love excuses everything, but 
it is dangerous to love as she loved Simon Doyle. It is what I said 
when 1 saw her first. “She cares too much, that little one!’” 

As Cornelia Robson joined them on the deck, Miss Van 
Schuyler moved slowly towards them, shouting, ‘Cornelia, why 
aren’t you helping me? I want to go directly home.’ 

Cornelia took a deep breath. ‘I’m not going home, Cousin. 

I'm going to get married.’ 

‘So you’re being sensible at last,’ said the old lady. 

‘Yes, but I’m not going to marry Ferguson - I’m going to 
marry Dr Bessner. He’s kind and knows a lot. I've always been 
interested in sick people and their problems, and I shall have a 
wonderful life with him.’ 

The boat landed, and after Richetti had been marched off, 
Simon Doyle was carried along the deck. Jacqueline de Bellefort 
followed behind with a guard at her side. 

‘Hello, Simon!’ she said. 

Simon’s face brightened for a moment. ‘I lost my head and 

admitted everything, Jackie. Sorry.’ 

‘It’s all right, Simon. A fool’s game and we lost. That’s all.’ 
She bent down to tie her shoe, and when she stood up again 
she had something in her hand. There was a sharp pop . 


* Quel pays sauvage!: French for‘What wild country! 


87 



Simon Doyle shook once and then lay still. 

Jacqueline stood for a minute, pistol in hand, and gave Poirot 
a quick smile. Then she turned the little gun against her heart 
and fired. She fell to the floor beside Simon Doyle. 

‘Where did she get that pistol?’ shouted Race. 

Poirot felt a hand on his arm. ‘You knew?’ Mrs Allerton 
said. 

‘I realised that she had a pair of pistols when one was found 
in Rosalie Otterbourne’s handbag. Jacqueline put it there when 
we announced our search. Later, she went to Rosalie’s cabin for 
a chat and got it back.’ 

Mrs Allerton said, ‘You wanted her to take that way out?’ 

‘Yes,’ admitted Poirot. ‘But she would not take it alone. And 
so Simon Doyle has died an easier death than he deserved.’ 

‘Love can be a very frightening thing.’ 

‘That is why most great love stories are tragedies,’ said 
Poirot. 

Mrs Allerton looked at her son and Rosalie Otterbourne, 
who were standing together in the sunlight. 

‘But thank God, there is happiness in the world.’ 

When the Kartiak reached shore, the whole world heard about 
the death of the famous, beautiful and wealthy Linnet Doyle. 
Sir George Wode read about it in his London club, Sterndale 
Rockford in his New York office, and Joanna Southwood 
in Switzerland. And in the pub in Malton-under-Wode, Mr 
Burnaby said, rather accurately, ‘Well, it doesn’t seem to have 
done her much good, poor girl.’ 

But soon they stopped talking about her and discussed horse¬ 
racing. Because, as Mr Ferguson was saying at that minute in 
Egypt, it is not the past that matters but the future. 



ACTIVITIES 


Chapter 1 

Before you read 

1 What do you know about Egypt? Work with a partner. 

a Discuss the country’s climate, geography and history, 
b Based on what you know, why would Egypt be a good 
background for a murder mystery set in the 1930s with 
characters from Europe and the United States? 

2 Can you name any famous detectives from literature, films or 
TV? What do they look like? What makes them unforgettable? 

3 Look at the Word List at the back of this book. Decide if each of 
these sentences are true or false. 

a Photographs of celebrities often appear in newspapers 
and popular magazines. 

b Twenty-first-century businesses send a large number of 
telegrams every day. 

c An engaged couple have been married for more than a 
year. 

d A honeymoon follows a wedding ceremony, 
e A scandal is something most people are proud of. 
f When they are trying to solve a murder case, the police 
ask suspects about their alibis. 
g Both men and women might wear a velvet jacket for a 
formal occasion. 

h Most capital cities have some ancient pyramids near the 
centre. 

i In most countries it is illegal for passengers to carry a 
pistol on an international flight, 
j Well-organised people plan their coincidences very 
carefully. 

While you read 

4 Circle the correct answers. 

a Mr Burnaby and his customer are bored by / interested in 
Linnet Ridgeway, the new owner of Wode Hall. 


89 



b Charles Windlesham loves Linnet Ridgeway more / less 
than she loves him. 

c Joanna Southwood would not / would be a faithful friend 
through both good and bad times, 
d Linnet Ridgeway’s enquiries have increased / ruined her 
maid’s chances of a happy future, 
e Hercule Poirot has the impression that Jacqueline de 
Bellefort’s celebration at Chez Ma Tante is likely to be 
followed by an exciting future / disappointment. 
f Linnet Ridgeway doesn’t hesitate / hesitates before hiring 
Simon Doyle as her land agent after she meets him. 
g Mrs Allerton has a high / low opinion of Joanna 
Southwood. 

h Something / Nothing worries Cornelia Robson’s mother 
about Miss Van Schuyler’s trip to Europe and Egypt, 
i Linnet’s American trustees and her British lawyers are 
concerned / delighted about her marriage to Simon Doyle, 
j Mrs Otterbourne and her daughter Rosalie have a very 
different / similar approach to life. 

After you read 

5 How are these people described in this chapter? 
a Linnet Ridgeway 

b Joanna Southwood 
c Jacqueline de Bellefort 
d Simon Doyle 
e Hercule Poirot 
f Tim Allerton 
g Cornelia Robson 

6 Discuss why these people might not have a high opinion of 
Linnet Ridgeway’s decision to marry Simon Doyle. 

a Charles Windlesham 
b Jacqueline de Bellefort 
c Mrs Allerton 

d Andrew Pennington and Sterndale Rockford 


90 



Chapter 2 

Before you read 

7 Imagine that you are on holiday in Egypt. Which of the characters 
from Chapter 1 would you like to meet and chat with at your 
hotel? Discuss your reasons. 

While you read 

8 Write the names of the people who might have these thoughts 
after their first meeting with Hercule Poirot in Egypt. 

a ‘Monsieur Poirot is quite old, but 
he has a sense of humour and 

understands human nature.’ . 

b The great detective and I have 
many things in common. We are 

both famous.’ . 

c ‘How dare that little Belgian refuse 
to work for me! And he thinks that 

he understands how I really feel!’ . 

d ‘I suppose Monsieur Poirot’s advice 
about my future is sensible, but I 

must make my own decisions.’ . 

e ‘Poirot’s right - Jackie’s got brains. 

But my plan will work and then I 

can forget about her.’ . 

9 Who is it? Match these people with the descriptions below. 
Andrew Pennington Cornelia Robson Rosalie Otterbourne 
Jim Fanthorp Miss Bowers Mrs Allerton Mr Ferguson 
Linnet Doyle Tim Allerton Jacqueline de Bellefort 
Signor Richetti Miss Van Schuyler 

a wears the wrong clothes for the 
climate; hates rich people and 

museums . 

b speaks more than one language; 
is offended by people who do not 

value ancient history and art . 


91 










c enjoys chatting with Hercule Poirot 

about the nature of criminal motives. 

d is old, ugly, arrogant and bossy . 

e follows orders like a slave . 

f envies other people their mothers . 

g surprises people by arriving on 

the Karnak . 

h is troubled by fears, worries and 

enemies, real or imagined . 

i isn’t polite to a guest at his supper 

table . 

j has a number of important 
documents with him that need 

signatures . 

k openly admires Mrs Doyle’s habit 
of reading documents carefully 

before signing them . 

I works as a secretary and nurse . 

After you read 

10 Which people, places and/or situations do these characters 
worry about or dislike? 

a Tim Allerton 
b Rosalie Otterbourne 
c Mrs Otterbourne 
d Signor Guido Richetti 
e Mrs Allerton 
f Mr Ferguson 
g Miss Van Schuyler 
h Mr Fanthorp 
i Mr Pennington 

11 Discuss why it is important for several characters to be unhappy 
or to have problems in a murder mystery. 


92 













Chapter 3 

Before you read 

12 In Chapter 2, Hercule Poirot learns about the background to the 
Doyles’ marriage from Linnet Doyle, Jacqueline de Bellefort and 
Simon Doyle, and wonders whose story is nearest the truth. 
Which story do you believe? Which of these three characters 
do you feel most sympathetic towards? 

While you read 

13 On which of the four days covered in Chapter 3 does each of 
these events happen? Write 1st, 2nd, 3rd or 4th. 

a A telegram arrives for Signor Richetti. 
b Colonel Race and Hercule Poirot learn that Simon 
Doyle was shot in the leg the previous night, 
c Most of the passengers from the Karnak make their 
first visit to the ancient temple at Abu Simbel. 
d Miss Van Schuyler cannot find her velvet shawl, 
e Colonel Race arrives on the Karnak. 
f Linnet Doyle is murdered in the early morning, 
g Cornelia Robson and Jim Fanthorp are witnesses 
when Jacqueline de Bellefort shoots Simon Doyle, 
h An enormous rock almost kills Linnet Doyle while 
she is sitting on the beach with her husband. 

After you read 

14 Work with a partner. Are these sentences true or false according 
to what happens in Chapter 3? Discuss your answers and 
explain them with information from the story. 

a Andrew Pennington seems slightly upset by at least one of 
Hercule Poirot’s questions as they walk to Abu Simbel. 
b Simon persuades Linnet to leave the temple at Abu Simbel 
after a short time. 

c Jacqueline de Bellefort pushes the rock that almost kills 
Linnet. 

d Immediately after the rock falls to the beach, Hercule 
Poirot cannot see Andrew Pennington. 


93 











e Tim Allerton and Rosalie Otterbourne admire each others’ 
mothers. 

f Signor Richetti thinks Linnet Doyle’s actions are always 
charming. 

g Colonel Race is on the Karnak on official business, 
h Hercule Poirot tells Colonel Race that he is enjoying a 
pleasant, peaceful journey on the Karnak. 
i Both Mr Ferguson and Miss de Bellefort make Cornelia 
Robson feel more interesting than usual, 
j On the night before the murder, Hercule Poirot finds it hard 
to go to sleep. 

k Jacqueline de Bellefort seems very upset after she fires her 
pistol at Simon Doyle. 

I Linnet Doyle is awake when the murderer shoots her. 

Chapter 4 

Before you read 

15 Look back at the sentences in Question 14. Which information 
do you think will help Hercule Poirot to solve the murder? 

While you read 

16 Who wanted to kill Linnet Doyle? Write the names which may 
be connected to the possible motives. 

a Linnet stole Simon Doyle from her. 

b Linnet refused to marry him. . 

c Linnet bought his house and made 

a lot of changes to it. . 

d She wanted the money she could 

get from Linnet’s expensive pearls. 

e His marriage to Marie was stopped 

by Linnet’s enquiries. . 

f He wanted to cover up his use of 
Linnet’s money for his own 

investments. . 

g Linnet had a romantic life that this 
girl could never have because she 

is plain. . 


94 










h He thought the world would be 
better without women like Linnet 

Doyle. . 

After you read 

17 Notice where these are mentioned or referred to in this chapter. 
Explain why you think Hercule Poirot and Colonel Race want to 
find out more about each of them. 

a the letter ‘J’ 

b Jacqueline de Bellefort’s pistol 
c a splash 

d a conversation between Poirot and Jacqueline de Bellefort, 
heard by someone at the Cataract Hotel 
e the passenger list 
f Linnet Doyle’s pearls 
g sleeping drugs 
h a handkerchief 
i a velvet shawl 

Chapter 5 

Before you read 

18 Divide the characters in Chapters 1 -4 into three groups. Discuss 
your reasons. 

a Possible murder suspects 

b People with a strong alibi 

c People who do not fit into either of group a or b 

While you read 

19 Four more people die violent deaths in this chapter. Complete 
the information about the second and third murders as you 
learn about them. 

a Second person murdered . 

Weapon used . 

Owner of the weapon . 

Reason for murder . 


Murderer 


95 










b Third person murdered 
Weapon used 
Owner of the weapon 
Reason for murder 


Murderer . 

20 Write something that the first person likes about the second 
person. 

a Mr Ferguson/Cornelia Robson . 


b Miss Van Schuyler/Mr Ferguson 


c Tim Allerton/Rosalie Otterbourne 


d Dr Bessner/Cornelia Robson 


e Cornelia Robson/Dr Bessner 


After you read 

21 Work with a partner. Discuss the connection between these 
pairs. 

a Mrs Otterbourne/the splash 
b Tim Allerton/jewel thefts 
c Miss Van Schuyler/Linnet Doyle’s pearls 
d Louise Bourget/a piece of a £100 note 
e Cornelia’s father/Linnet’s father 
f Andrew Pennington/the Normandie 
g Signor Richetti/vegetables 
h Simon Doyle/red ink 
i Simon/Miss Van Schuyler’s shawl 
j Simon/the third bullet 
k Jacqueline de Bellefort/a false star 


96 



















Writing 

22 You are Simon Doyle and you have recently married Linnet 
Ridgeway. Write a letter to Jacqueline de Bellefort telling her 
how difficult it is for you to act the role of Linnet’s perfect 
husband. 

23 You are Jacqueline de Bellefort, the brains behind the murder 
of Linnet Doyle. Write a step-by-step plan for the murder. 

24 You are Mrs Otterbourne, the novelist. Using the passengers on 
the Karnak as your characters, write some notes for your next 
romantic novel. 

25 You are the captain of the Karnak. Write four telegrams about 
the four murders to send to the police and the newspapers 
before you return to Shellal. 

26 Imagine that you are Rosalie Otterbourne before Linnet Doyle is 
murdered. Write about your feelings towards Linnet Doyle, your 
mother and Mrs Allerton in your private diary. 

27 Tim has returned to England from Egypt. Write a conversation 
between him and Joanna Southwood in which Tim explains 
why he will not steal anything ever again and why he cannot be 
Joanna’s friend. 

28 Imagine that you are the recently married Mrs Cornelia Bessner. 
Write a letter to Miss Van Schuyler telling her about your 
wonderful new life with your husband, Dr Bessner. Thank her 
for taking you to Egypt in the first place. 

29 Hercule Poirot is back in London having dinner at Chez Ma 
Tante. Write a conversation between him and Monsieur Blondin 
about the detective’s recent trip to Egypt. 

30 At the end of the novel five people are dead. Whose death is the 
most tragic? Explain the reasons for your answer. 

31 Write a reader’s report on the book. Explain why you think it is 
or is not a successful detective story. 

Answers for the activities in this book are available from the Penguin Readers website. 

A free Activity Worksheet is also available from the website. Activity Worksheets are 
part of the Penguin Teacher Support Programme, which also includes Progress Tests 
and Graded Reader Guidelines. For more information, please visit: 

www.penguinreaders.com. 



WORD LIST 


alibi (n) proof that someone was not at the scene of a crime and is 
therefore not guilty of the crime 

arrogant (adj) believing that you are more important than anyone else 

blackmail (n/v) the act of making someone pay you money or do what 
you want by threatening to tell secrets about them 

cabin (n) a small room on a ship, where you sleep 

celebrity (n) a famous living person 

coincidence (n) a surprising situation in which two similar events 
happen by chance at the same time or to the same people 

colonel (n) an officer with a high position in the army 
deck (n) one of the outside levels on a ship that you can walk or sit 
on 

engaged (adj) having agreed to get married; an engagement is an 
agreement to get married 

honeymoon (n) a holiday that people have after their wedding 

insist (v) to say firmly that something is true, especially when other 
people think it may not be true 

investment (n) the money that you give to a company or bank because 
you want to make a profit later 

land agent (n) the manager of a large property 
maid (n) a female servant, especially in a large house 
motive (n) the reason why someone does something 
pear drop (n) a hard boiled sweet with a strong taste and smell 
pearl (n) a valuable small, white, round object used in jewellery 
pistol (n) a small gun that you hold in one hand 

pyramid (n) an ancient stone building with four walls that come to a 
point at the top 

rosary (n) a string of small round objects used especially by Catholics 
for counting prayers 

scandal (n) something that happens that people think is immoral or 
shocking 

shawl (n) a large piece of cloth that a woman wears around her shoulders 
or head 



splash (n) the sound that something makes when it hits water 
stain (n/v) a mark that is difficult to remove 

stock market (n) the business of buying and selling shares in 
companies 

telegram (n) a message sent using electrical signals 

temple (n) a building where people in some religions go to pray 

terrace (n) a flat area next to a building or on a roof, where you can 
sit 

trustee (n) a person or company that legally controls someone else’s 
property or money 

velvet (n) cloth with a soft surface on one side, used for making jackets 
and curtains, for example 




LEVEL 5 


Death on the Nile 


Linnet Ridgeway is rich, beautiful and clever. She appears to have 
everything. But Linnet also has enemies. When she is shot dead 
on a passenger boat in Egypt, it is fortunate that Hercule Poirot 
is also on the trip. But even for the great Belgian detective, this is 
not a simple case. 


Penguin Readers are simplified texts which provide a step-by-step 
approach to the joys of reading for pleasure. 


Series Editors: Andy Hopkins and Jocelyn Potter 

Easystarts 
Level I 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Level 4 
Level 5 
Level 6 

Contemporary British English 

Number of words (excluding activities): 26,246 


200 

300 

headwords 

headwords 

Beginner 

600 

headwords 

Elementary 

1200 

headwords 

Pre-Intermediate 

1700 

headwords 

Intermediate 

2300 

headwords 

Upper-Intermediate 

3000 

headwords 

Advanced 


★ *\ 

B2 * 

★ ★/ 
x* * *y 


Cover illustration by Lucy Davey / www.theartworksinc.com 


www.agathachristie.com 


Audio CD pack also available 


TM 


www.penguinreaders.com 


> 1 > 

PEARSON 

Longman 


ISBN 978-1-4058-6779-5 


78H05 86779 